

===== PAGE 1 =====

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Code of Practice 
September 2018 

===== PAGE 2 =====

CODE OF MONEY LENDING PRACTICE 
 
Table of Contents 
PART I – INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................... 1 
1 Status of the Code of Money Lending Practice .......................................... 1 
2 General Principles ...................................................................................... 1 
3 Objectives................................................................................................... 4 
4 Enquiries .................................................................................................... 5 
PART II - RECOMMENDATIONS ON MONEY LENDING PRACTICE ....................................... 6 
Chapter 1 –RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MEMBERS AND CUSTOMERS .......................... 6 
5 Terms and Conditions................................................................................. 6 
6 Debt Recovery Expenses ............................................................................ 8 
7 Collection, Use, Holding and Erasure of Customer Information ................ 8 
8 Personal Referees ........................................................................................ 10 
9 Equal Opportunity .................................................................................... 11 
10 Member Marketing .............................................................................. 11 
11 Annual Percentage Rates ..................................................................... 12 
12 Handling Customer Complaints ........................................................... 12 
13 Additional Licensing Conditions of Money Lenders Licence and 
New/Revised Sample Forms…………………………………………………………… 13 
Chapter 2 -LOANS ..................................................................................................... 15 
14 Loans .................................................................................................... 15 
15 Residential Mortgage Lending ............................................................. 17 
16 Other Secured Lending ........................................................................ 19 
17 Guarantees and Third Party Securities ................................................. 20 
Chapter 3–RECOVERY OF LOANS AND ADVANCES ..................................................... 23 
18 Application ........................................................................................... 23 
19 Debt Collection Activities ..................................................................... 23 
20 Management of Debt Collection Agencies .......................................... 26 
USEFUL DEFINITIONS ............................................................................................... 29 
Appendix 1(a) Money Lenders Licence – Additional Licensing Conditions…………………....32 
Appendix 1(b) Guidelines on Additional Licensing Conditions  of  Money  Lenders 
Licence ........................................................................................................................... ..36 
Appendix 1(c) Money Lenders Licence – Licensing Conditions…………………………………… 76 
Appendix 1(d) Sample form on disclosure of the existence of third parties by     
intending borrower…………………………………………………………………………………………….……….80 
 

===== PAGE 3 =====

Appendix 1(e) Sample form on recording the particulars of appointed third party 
involved in a loan agreement …………………………………………………………………………………….83 
Appendix 1(f) Sample form for recording explanation of terms of loan agreement    
given to intending borrower…………………………………………………..…………………………………..85 

===== PAGE 4 =====

1 
 
PART I – INTRODUCTION 
 
1 Status of the Code of Money Lending Practice 
 
1.1 This Code of Money Lending Pract ice (“Code”) is issued by the Hong 
Kong S.A.R. Licensed Money Lenders Association Limited (“LMLA”). 
 
1.2 This is a non -statutory Code issued on a voluntary basis. It is to be 
observed by members of the LMLA (“members”) in dealing with their 
personal customers.  It covers specifically money lending services. 
However, the principles of the Code apply to the overall relationship 
between members and their customers in Hong Kong. 
 
1.3 LMLA expects their respective members to comply with the Code. 
 
1.4 The recommendations set  out in this Code are supplementary to and 
do not supplant any relevant legislation, in particular, the Money 
Lenders Ordinance (Cap.163). 
 
1.5 The Code is subject to review and revision from time to time. Unless 
otherwise shown, this revised edition is effective from September 2018. 
Members should take active steps to comply with the revised provisions.  
 
2 General Principles 
 
2.1 Equitable and Fair Treatment of Customers 
 
Members should treat all customers equitably, honestly and fairly at all 
stages of their relationship with the members. Treating customers fairly 
should be an integral part of the good governance and corporate 
culture of all members and their authorized agents. 
 
2.2 Disclosure and Transparency 

===== PAGE 5 =====

2 
 
 
Members and their authorized agents should set out and ex plain clearly 
the key features, risks and terms of the products, fees or charges 
applicable, possible consequences for any default in repayment, and 
make available the details of these to customers. Additional disclosures, 
including appropriate warnings, s hould be developed to provide 
information commensurate with the nature and risks of the products 
and services. They should also provide information on conflicts of 
interest associated with the use by members of their authorized agents 
through which any pro duct is sold. Appropriate information should be 
provided at all stages of the relationship with the customer. All financial 
promotional material should be accurate, honest, understandable and 
not misleading. Standardised pre -contractual disclosure practice s 
should be adopted where applicable and practicable to allow 
comparisons between products and services of the same nature.  
[Amended in September 2018] 
 
Where advice is provided, the advice should be as objective as possible 
and should in general be based on the customer’s profile considering 
the complexity of the product, the risks associated with it as well as the 
customer’s financial objectives, knowledge, capabilities and experience. 
Members should inform customers that it is important to provide 
members with relevant, accurate and available information. 
 
2.3 Financial Education and Awareness 
 
Recognising that customers have their responsibilities in enhancing 
financial literacy, members should join force with the government, 
regulatory bodies and other rele vant stakeholders to promote financial 
education and awareness and help existing and future customers to 
develop the knowledge, skills and confidence appropriately to 
understand risks, including financial risks and opportunities, make 
informed choices, kno w where to go for assistance, and take effective 
action to improve their own financial well -being. The provision of broad 
based financial education and information to deepen customers’ 
financial knowledge and capability should be promoted. Clear 
information on consumer protection, rights and responsibilities should 
be easily accessible by customers. 

===== PAGE 6 =====

3 
 
2.4 Responsible Business Conduct of Members and Authorized Agents 
 
Members and their authorized agents should have as an objective, to 
work in the best interest of  their customers and be responsible for 
upholding financial consumer protection. Members should also be 
responsible and accountable for the actions of their authorized agents 
and third party service providers. Depending on the nature of the 
transaction and based on information primarily provided by customers, 
members should assess the financial capabilities and needs of their 
customers before offering them a product, advice or service. Staff 
(especially those who interact directly with customers) should be 
properly trained and qualified. Members and their authorized agents 
should endeavour to avoid conflicts of interest. When this cannot be 
avoided, they should ensure proper disclosure, or have in place internal 
mechanisms to manage such conflicts, or declin e to provide the 
product, advice or service. The remuneration structure for staff of 
members and, where appropriate, their authorized agents should be 
designed to encourage responsible business conduct, fair treatment of 
customers and to avoid conflicts of interest. 
 
In relation to any fees charged by any authorised agents or any other 
third parties, members should pay attention to the Additional Licensing 
Conditions, in particular, conditions 2  and 4 thereof (i.e. the equivalent 
conditions 2 and 4 of the M erged Licensing Conditions) . [Added in 
September 2018] 
 
2.5 Protection of Consumer Data and Privacy 
 
Members should have in place appropriate control and protection 
mechanisms to protect customers’ financial and personal information. 
These mechanisms should co mply with all applicable legislation and in 
particular should define the purposes for which the data may be 
collected, processed, held, used and disclosed. The mechanisms should 
also acknowledge the rights of customers to be informed about data -
sharing, to access data and to obtain the prompt correction and/or 
deletion of inaccurate, or unlawfully collected or processed data. 
 
2.6 Complaints Handling and Redress 
 
Members and, where appropriate, their authorized agents should 

===== PAGE 7 =====

4 
 
maintain and monitor proper systems and procedures for handling 
complaints and provide customers with reasonable channels to submit 
claims, make complaints and seek redress that are accessible, fair, 
accountable, timely and efficient. Such channels should not impose 
unreasonable cost, delays  or burdens on  customers. [Amended in 
September 2018] 
 
2.7 Competition 
 
Members should allow customers to search, compare and, where 
appropriate, switch between products and members easily and at 
reasonable and disclosed costs. 
 
2.8 Internal Control 
 
Members shoul d establish and maintain proper systems and 
procedures to ensure their partners, employers, employees, principals 
or agents, any persons acting for them and  any appointed third parties 
are informed of and observe the licensing conditions and the provisions 
of the Money Lenders Ordinance. [Added in September 2018] 
 
2.9 Books and records 
 
All books, records and documents of the money lending business of 
members must be kept on the premises specified in the ir money 
lenders licence. [Added in September 2018] 
 
2.10 Responsibility statement 
 
Members should keep abreast of any updates on laws and regulations 
governing their conduct. LMLA disclaims any liability whatsoever for 
any loss howsoever arising from or in reliance upon the whole or any 
part of the contents of the Code. [Added in September 2018] 
 
3 Objectives 
 
3.1 The Code is intended - 
 
(a) to promote good money lenders practices by setting out the   
minimum standards which members should follow in their 
dealings with customers; 

===== PAGE 8 =====

5 
 
 
(b) to increase transparency in the provision of mon ey lending 
services so as to enhance the understanding of customers of 
what they can reasonably expect of the services provided by  
members; 
 
(c)      to promote a stronger culture of treating customers fairly 
which will ensure customers’ interests are taken in to account 
by members in their business dealings with customers; and 
 
(d) through the above, to foster customer confidence in the 
money lending industry. 
 
3.2 The above objectives are to be achieved - 
 
(a) having regard to the need for members to conduct business in 
accordance with prudential standards in order to preserve the 
stability of the money lending industry ; and 
 
(b) while striking a reasonable balance between customer rights 
and efficiency of money lending operations. 
 
4 Enquiries 
 
Enquiries about the Code should be addressed to the LMLA. Its current address and 
contact details are as follows - 
 
The Hong Kong S.A.R. Licensed Money Lenders Association Limited 
21/F., Allied Kajima Building 
138 Gloucester Road 
Wanchai 
Hong Kong Tel: 
2827 8281 
Fax: 2827 8292 
Website: www.lmla.com.hk 
Email: enquiry@lmla.com.hk 
 
The Code can be viewed or downloaded from the websites of LMLA. All members will 
make copies of the Code available to customers or inform them how to obtain. 

===== PAGE 9 =====

6 
 
PART II - RECOMMENDATIONS ON MONEY LENDING PRACTICE 
 
Chapter 1 –RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MEMBERS AND CUSTOMERS 
 
5 Terms and Conditions 
 
5.1 Members should make readily available to customers or prospective 
customers written terms a nd conditions of a money lending service. 
Members should be prepared to answer any queries of customers or 
prospective customers relating to terms and conditions. In cases where 
the query relates to a service provided by a third party service provider, 
members may, where necessary, refer the query to the relevant third 
party service provider after obtaining the customer’s consent or direct 
the customer to contact the third party service provider. Members 
should thereafter provide assistance to the customer if the customer so 
requests. 
 
5.2 Members should provide written terms and conditions of a money 
lending service to prospective customers upon application of the 
money lending service as far as possible. Where the provision of 
written terms and conditions is n ot practicable at the point of sale, 
members should provide key terms and conditions orally to prospective 
customers and provide a full set of the terms and conditions to the 
customers as soon as practicable afterwards. Where the provision of 
written or or al terms and conditions is not practicable at the point of 
sale, members should inform prospective customers where they can 
find the terms and conditions (including providing a link to the 
member’s website) and advise them to read and understand the terms 
and conditions before applying for the money lending service and 
provide a full set of terms and conditions as soon as practicable 
afterwards. 
 
5.3 The terms and conditions should provide a fair and balanced 
description of the relationship between the customer and the member. 
 
5.4 The terms and conditions should be available in both Chinese and 
English unless the money lending service is governed by law other  than 
that of Hong Kong or there is little or no demand for bilingual 
information. Members should use plain language and avoid complex 
legal and technical terms wherever practicable. Where legal and 

===== PAGE 10 =====

7 
 
technical language is used, appropriate explanation should be provided 
where practicable. The terms and conditions should be presented in a 
reasonable layout and font size that is readily readable. 
 
5.5 The terms and conditions should, where applicable, highlight any fees, 
charges, relevant interest rates and total amount of interest payable (or 
the basis on which these will be determined) , periodic amount of  and 
total re payment, possible consequence s for any default in repayment  
and the customer’s liabilities and obligations in the use of a money 
lending service. [Amended in September 2018] 
 
5.6 In drawing up terms and conditions for money lending services, 
members should hav e due regard to applicable laws in Hong Kong, 
including, in particular, the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163), the 
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486), the Control of Exemption 
Clauses Ordinance (Cap.71), the Unconscionable Contracts Ordinance 
(Cap. 458), and the Supply of Services (Implied Terms) Ordinance (Cap. 
457) and any other prevailing consumer protection legislation. 
 
5.7 The terms and conditions should be consistent with this Code. 
Members should keep terms and conditions under review to ensu re 
they are consistent with this Code. 
 
5.8 Members should advise customers to read and understand the terms 
and conditions when applying for money lending services. 
 
5.9 Members should give customers 30 days’ notice before any variation of 
the terms and condition s which affects fees and charges and the 
liabilities or obligations of customers takes effect. For all other variation, 
members should give customers reasonable notice before such variation 
takes effect. 
 
5.10 Where the variation involves substantial changes to  existing terms and 
conditions or the changes are very complicated, the member should 
provide a written summary of the key features of the revised terms and 
conditions. 

===== PAGE 11 =====

8 
 
 
5.11 Members should issue a full version of the revised terms and conditions 
to customers if there are sufficient changes to warrant it, regardless of 
the nature of the changes. 
 
6 Debt Recovery Expenses 
 
6.1 Any cost indemnity provision contained in the terms and conditions 
should only provide for the recovery of costs and expenses which are of 
reasonable amount and were reasonably incurred. 
 
6.2 At the request of customers, members should provide a detailed 
breakdown of the costs and expenses for which customers are required 
to indemnify the members. 
 
7 Collection, Use, Holding and Erasure of Customer Information 
 
7.1 Members should treat their customers’ (and former customers’) money 
lending affairs as private and confidential. 
 
7.2 Members should at all times comply with the Personal Data (Privacy) 
Ordinance (Cap. 486) (“PDPO”) in the collection, use, holding an d 
erasure of customers’ information. They should also comply with any 
relevant codes of practice issued or approved by the Privacy 
Commissioner for Personal Data giving practical guidance on 
compliance with the PDPO. 
 
7.3 On or before collecting customers’ per sonal information, members 
should notify customers as specifically as possible of the classes of 
person to whom they may wish to make disclosure of customers’ 
information and the purpose of such disclosure. Classes of person 
about which customers should be  specifically notified include among 
others - 
 
(a) debt collection agencies; 
 
(b) data processors to which the processing of personal information 

===== PAGE 12 =====

9 
 
is to be, or may be, outsourced; 
 
(c) credit reference agencies; 
 
(d) subject to section 7.4 below, persons to whom customers ’ 
contact details may be disclosed for marketing purposes including, 
related companies within the same group and other persons 
(classified in specific terms, such as co -branding partners of the 
member or third party loyalty programme providers which in 
each case should be shown in application forms/leaflets for the 
relevant services or products provided to customers); and 
 
(e) such other persons to whom disclosure may be required by 
applicable laws or regulatory guidelines issued from time to time. 
 
7.4 Members sho uld not, without the prescribed consent of their 
customers, provide credit references in respect of a customer. A 
member that intends to use customer information for direct marketing 
purposes shall comply with the PDPO and any relevant codes of 
practice. 
 
7.5 Where personal information is used by a member for its own marketing 
purposes for the first time, the member should inform the customer 
that the member will, without charge to the customer, cease to so use 
the personal information if the customer so requests. 
 
7.6 Members should remind customers at least once every year or by 
including a standard notice in their marketing materials of the right to 
make the request referred to in section 7.5 above. 
 
7.7 When a customer objects to the disclosure of the information referred 
to in section 7.3(d) above or refuses to give the consent or an indication 
of no objection or withdraws any consent or indication of no objection 
required under the PDPO, the member concerned should give effect to 
such objection, refusal or withdraw al and should not refuse to provide 
that customer with money lending services. 
 
7.8 Where personal information is transferred to a third party service 

===== PAGE 13 =====

10 
 
provider, for example, as part of an outsourcing arrangement, members 
should satisfy themselves that such in formation will be treated as 
confidential and adequately safeguarded by that service provider and 
adopt contractual or other means to prevent any information 
transferred to that service provider from being the subject of 
unauthorized or accidental access, processing, use, erasure or loss or 
kept longer than is necessary for the purposes stipulated in the 
outsourcing agreement. Members should remain accountable to 
customers for any complaints arising out of the handling of customer 
information by service pro viders and should not attempt to disclaim 
responsibility for any breach of customer confidentiality by service 
providers. 
 
7.9  In the course of handling personal data, members should be aware of 
their obligations under condition 5 of the Additional Licens ing 
Conditions (i.e. condition 6 of the Merged Licensing Condition s). 
[Added in September 2018] 
 
8 Personal Referees 
 
8.1 Members may require applicants for money lending services to provide 
in the application forms for such services the names and particulars of  
persons who have agreed to act as referees for the applicant. 
 
8.2 The role of referees is confined to providing, on a voluntary basis and 
upon request by the member, information about the applicant in 
respect of the money lending service specified in the app lication form. 
Referees have no legal or moral obligation to repay to the member 
liabilities of a customer unless they have entered into a formal 
agreement to guarantee the liabilities of that customer. 
 
8.3 Members should require applicants for money lending services to 
confirm that they have obtained the prior consent of the referees for 
their names to be used. If the applicant fails to give such confirmation, 
members should not approach the referees. In such cases, members 
should decide on their own judgment  whether to continue to process 
the application. 
 
8.4 Members should not attempt to seek, directly or indirectly, repayment 
of debt from a customer’s referees who are not acting as guarantors. 

===== PAGE 14 =====

11 
 
Related to this, members should not pass information about referees 
(or third parties other than debtors or guarantors) to their debt 
collection agencies. If a referee is to be approached for information  to 
help locate a debtor or guarantor, this should be done, without causing 
nuisance to the referee, by staff of the member. 
 
 
9 Equal Opportunity 
 
9.1 Members should at all times comply with the relevant ordinances for 
the promotion of equal opportunity and any codes issued under these 
ordinances in the provision of money lending services. 
 
9.2 In respect of customers with a disabil ity, members should adopt a 
helpful approach to making available to them appropriate means to 
access money lending services. In particular, members are encouraged 
to install specialised machines or software and to provide physical 
access to facilitate the provision of money lending services to persons 
with a disability. 
 
9.3 In addition to the statutory requirements, members should not 
discriminate against any customers simply on the ground of family 
status (for example, single parents), sexuality, age or race in the 
provision of money lending services and in the quality and terms of 
services provided. 
 
9.4 Members should provide suitable training to front -line staff to raise 
awareness of the principles and guidelines relating to equal opportunity 
and the provision of assistance to customers with a disability. 
 
10 Member Marketing 
 
10.1 Members should exercise care in the use of direct mail and in particular 
should exercise restraint and be selective - 
 
(a) where customers are minors; and 
 
(b) when promoting loans. 
 
10.2 Members should e nsure that all advertising and promotional materials 

===== PAGE 15 =====

12 
 
are fair and reasonable, do not contain misleading information and 
comply with all relevant legislation, codes and rules. Where benefits are 
subject to conditions, such conditions should be clearly displ ayed in the 
advertising materials wherever practicable. Where there are limitations 
as to space, e.g. in poster advertisements and television commercials, 
the advertisement should include reference to the means by which 
further information may be obtained. 
 
10.3 In relation to any advertisement issued or published by members for 
their business, members should be aware of its obligations under 
condition 9 of the Additional Licensing Conditions  (i.e. condition 9 of 
the Merged Licensing Conditions) and refer to the  Guidelines on 
Additional Licensing Conditions of Money Lenders Licence issued by the 
Companies Registry for the requirements. [Added in September 2018] 
 
10.4 In any marketing process and advertising and promotional material for 
a money lending service, members should indicate the interest rate and 
relevant fees and charges normally incurred, where appropriate, in a 
clear and prominent manner and that full details of the relevant terms 
and conditions are available on request. Where reference is made to an 
interest rate, members should also indicate the APR upon request. 
 
10.5 Members should exercise restraint in making unsolicited (that is, cold) 
calls to customers. 
 
11 Annual Percentage Rates 
 
11.1 In verbal and written discussions with prospective customers 
concerning inter est rates, members should be prepared to quote the 
APRs for loan products to facilitate comparison between different 
charging structures. 
 
11.2 Members should be prepared to respond to inquiries from customers 
concerning APRs and the methods of calculation. 
 
12 Handling Customer Complaints 
 
12.1 Members should establish procedures for handling customer 
complaints in a fair and speedy manner. The complaint procedures 
should take into account the following criteria - 

===== PAGE 16 =====

13 
 
 
(a) transparency - the applicable procedures should be documented; 
 
(b) accessibility - the procedures should be easily invoked by 
customers; and 
 
(c) effectiveness - the procedures should provide for the speedy 
resolution of disputes in a fair and equitable manner. 
 
12.2 Details of how to invoke complaint procedures should b e made 
available to customers and other interested parties such as personal 
referees and guarantors so that they know what steps to take if they 
wish to make a complaint. 
 
12.3 Members should ensure that all their staff who deal directly with 
customers are made aware of the complaint procedures and are able to 
help customers by giving correct information about these procedures. 
 
12.4 Members should send an acknowledgment to the complainant within 7 
days upon receiving a written complaint (where the complaint cannot 
be resolved within 7 days) and a written response to the complaint 
within a reasonable period, normally not exceeding 30 days. 
Correspondence with the complainant should be sent in Chinese or 
English in accordance with the language of the complaint. 
 
13 Additional Licensing Conditions  of Money Lenders Licence  and New  / Revised 
Sample Forms 
 
13.1 The Companies Registry has introduced 10 additional licensing 
conditions (“Additional Licensing Conditions”) to, among other things, 
further elucidate the relationship betwe en a money lender and 
intermediaries in a loan transaction, ensure effective enforcement of 
the ban on separate fee charging, ensure better regulation, and 
promote prudent money lending practice. [Added in September 2018 
with reference to the Companies Registry’s Money Lenders Licence - 
Additional Licensing Conditions which took effect from  1 December  
2016] 
  
13.2 The full text of the Additional Licensing Conditions, which had taken 
effect from 1 December 2016, and the Guidelines on Additional 
Licensing Conditions of Money Lenders Licence are at Appendix 1(a) and 

===== PAGE 17 =====

14 
 
1(b) respectively. [Added in September 2018] 
 
13.3 For money lenders licences granted or renewed after 1 December 2016, 
the Additional Licensing Conditions are incorporated into the existing 
licensing conditions (i.e. the Merged Licensing Conditions) which are set 
out in Appendix 1(c). [Added in September 2018] 
 
13.4 The Company Registry has introduced a revised sample form on 8 June 
2018 for Licensing Condition 1 (b) on disclosure of the existence of third 
parties by intending borrower, which is set out in Appendix 1 (d), to 
ensure that the intending borrower honestly discloses any involvement 
of third party. [Added in September 2018] 
 
13.5 The Company Registry has introduced two new sample forms on 8 June 
2018 for Lice nsing Conditions 1 (c) (ii) on recording the particulars of 
appointed third party involved in a loan agreement and for Licensing 
Condition 5 for recording explanation of terms of loan agreement given 
to intending borrower , which are set out in Appendix 1 (e) and 1 (f) 
respectively, t o set out clearly the necessary information to be 
recorded and  kept by licensed money lenders . [Added in September 
2018]

===== PAGE 18 =====

15 
 
Chapter 2 -LOANS 
 
14 Loans 
 
14.1 Approval of loans is subject to members’ credit assessment which 
should take into account the applicants’ ability to repay. In doing so, 
members may have regard to such factors as - 
 
(a) prior knowledge of the customer’s financial affairs gained from 
past dealings; 
 
(b) the customer’s income and expenditure; 
 
(c) the customer’s assets and liabilities; 
 
(d) information obtained from credit reference agencies; and 
 
(e) other relevant information supplied by the applicant. 
 
14.2 Members should explain to  a prospective borrower all the terms and 
conditions of any borrowing arrangement, and keep written or video or 
audio records . [Amended in September 2018]  The following 
information should be provided upon application for a loan or, where 
relevant, in a subsequent offer, and on request- 
 
(a) the rate of interest and the total amount of interest for the loan, 
and whether it may be varied over the period of the  loan; 
[Amended in September 2018] 
 
(b) a brief explanation of the basis on which interest will be 
determined and when it will be payable, including where relevant 
the APRs (see section 11 above); 
 
(c) all fees and charges which  will apply, and a brief explanation of 
the basis on which such fees and charges will be determined and 
when they will be payable; 
 
(d) the specified period during which the loan offer may be accepted 
by the prospective borrower; 

===== PAGE 19 =====

16 
 
 
(e) details of terms of repaymen t, periodically and in total, including 
the loan tenor and, where relevant , the instalments payable by 
the customer; [Amended in September 2018] 
 
(f) the possible consequences for any default in payment, including (i) 
the taking into possession and sale of any  security involved; and (ii) 
any overriding right to demand immediate  repayment; [Amended 
in September 2018] 
 
(g) other significant features such as security requirements and late 
payment charges, and a brief description of the basis of the late 
payment charge s and the borrower’s right to make early 
repayment. 
 
14.3 In addition to the information set out in section 14.2  above, the 
following information on instalment loans (i.e. loans repayable by equal 
instalments) should be provided to customers upon application fo r a 
loan or in a subsequent offer, and on request - 
 
(a) where applicable, the loan balance used as the basis 
forcalculating the fees and charges under sections 14.2(c) and 
14.2(g) above and the timing when the loan balance is 
determined; and 
 
(b) the apportionmen t of interest and principal for each loan  
repayment throughout the loan tenor and the method of 
apportionment. 
 
14.4 For loans with a specified maturity date, members should, upon 
request, quote the APRs for different tenors which are commonly 
selected by customers. 
 
14.5 For loans which are revolving in nature, members should, upon request, 
quote the APR. 
 
14.6 Where there is more than one applicable interest rate during the loan 
period, members should, upon request, quote an APR which takes into 
account all the applicab le interest rates for different parts of the loan 
period. 
 
14.7 Where the rate of interest for a loan is based on a reference rate, for 

===== PAGE 20 =====

17 
 
example, best lending rate, members should notify customers of any 
changes in the reference rate as soon as practicable, unl ess such 
changes have been widely publicized in the media. 
 
 
14.8 Default interest rate should be expressly stated in the terms and 
conditions. Members should also state the circumstances where default 
interest would be charged and the calculation method. If cu stomers fail 
to make repayments without prior agreement, members may, in 
accordance with the relevant terms and conditions, charge simple 
interest on the sum payable to the member under the agreement, 
whether in respect of principal or interest, from the d ate of default 
until payment, at a rate not exceeding the normal rate under the 
agreement. Members should advise customers in advance of their right 
to charge such interest and inform customers promptly after exercising 
such right. 
 
14.9 Members should advise c ustomers to inform them as soon as possible 
of any difficulty in repaying or servicing the loan over the credit period. 
 
15 Residential Mortgage Lending 
 
15.1 This section applies to any mortgage loan secured on a residential 
property / car park regardless of the purpose of the loan or the location 
of the residential property/car park. In the case of an individual 
providing (or proposing to provide) a residential property / car park as 
third party security, section 17 below will apply. 
 
 15.1A     Members shall not  accept a subsidi sed flat provided by the Hong Kong 
Housing Authority as collateral for the loan to the borrower unless (a) 
the Hong Kong Housing Authority confirms that the necessary premium 
for removing the restrictions on alienation on the said flat has  been 
fully paid; or (b) the Director of Housing approves to mortgage or 
charge the said flat. [Added in September 2018] 
 
15.2 Members should provide customers and prospective customers with 
information similar to that in section 14.2 above upon application for  a 
mortgage loan secured on a residential property / car park or, where 
relevant, in a subsequent offer and on request. In addition, members 
should warn customers that the mortgage loan is secured on the 
property in question and that default may result in the member taking 

===== PAGE 21 =====

18 
 
possession of, and selling, the property. 
 
15.3 In the case of an “All Monies” mortgage (i.e. a mortgage which will 
secure all amounts payable by the borrowers) involving more than one 
borrower, the amount secured under the mortgage should not  exceed 
the amount of money, obligations and liabilities owing or incurred at any 
time by the co -borrowers jointly. This does not restrict a co -borrower 
acting as surety from separately guaranteeing or securing the other’s 
obligations in a transparent mann er which complies with the provisions 
of section 17 below. 
 
 
15.4 Members should provide customers with revised particulars of 
instalments payable by the customer after every adjustment of the 
interest rate. 
 
15.5 Members should also inform customers or prospective customers that 
they have the right to employ separate solicitors for themselves, and 
the cost implications of doing so. 
 
15.6 Customers may, from members’ approved lists, appoint solicitors to 
represent both themselves and the members (unless it is the member’s  
policy to require separate legal representation) and employ insurers 
which they think fit to insure the properties against fire or other serious 
damage. The coverage of such approved lists should be sufficiently wide 
to allow customers to make a choice. I n the case of insurers, the 
approved list should include insurers which are not related to the 
member. 
 
15.7 Members should inform customers and prospective customers that they 
may employ solicitors not on the approved lists of members (a) to 
represent themselv es, and, (b) if the members’ policy so allows to 
represent both themselves and the members, and if they do so, the 
procedures involved, the nature and amount of the fees and charges 
levied by the members, and the nature of any extra fees that may be 
charged by the solicitors which are known to the members including the 
costs for the additional work for each solicitor in reviewing the other 
solicitor’s documentation under scenario (a). 
 
15.8 If it is the members’ policy to require separate legal representation or to 

===== PAGE 22 =====

19 
 
employ only solicitors on the approved lists to represent the members, 
this should be highlighted to customers and  prospective customers. 
Members should also inform customers and prospective customers of 
the cost implications as a result. 
 
15.9 Members should inform customers and prospective customers that they 
may employ insurers not on the approved lists of members, and if they 
do so, the procedures involved, any criteria to be fulfilled by the 
insurers (e.g. any minimum policy cover), any fees charged by the 
members, and any extra costs involved. Any criteria imposed should be 
reasonable. 
 
15.10 The amount and the nature of risks to be insured during the term of  the 
loan should be reasonable and should be a matter of mutual agreement 
between members and their cu stomers. Members should provide an 
option for the customers or prospective customers to choose whether 
the insured amount should be based on the original loan value and the 
current loan value (provided it is not below the cost of reinstating the 
property), and should inform them of any extra costs or fees involved 
(for example, annual valuation fees) for the latter option. 
 
15.11 On receipt of a request from customers for discharge of a mortgage, 
members should as soon as reasonably practicable release title deed s 
and any relevant documents (other than the mortgage itself) to the 
solicitor representing the customer against the solicitor’s undertaking to 
return the documents on demand as appropriate. Unless members 
encounter any practical difficulties, this process  should normally be 
completed within 21 days. If members are unable to meet this industry 
standard, they should promptly inform the customer. 
 
15.12 Members should guard against fraud by person misrepresenting 
themselves as the owner(s) of the property. 
 
16 Other Secured Lending 
 
In the case of a security document other than a residential mortgage involving more 
than one borrower, the amount secured under the security document should not 
exceed the amount of money, obligations and liabilities owing or incurred at any time 
by the co-borrowers jointly. This does not restrict a co-borrower acting as surety 

===== PAGE 23 =====

20 
 
from separately guaranteeing or securing the other’s obligations in a transparent 
manner which complies with the provisions of section 17 below. 
 
17 Guarantees and Third Party Securities 
 
17.1 Subject to the consent of the borrower as required under section 17.9 
below, members should provide an individual proposing to give a 
guarantee or third party security (the “surety”) with a copy or summary 
of the contract evidencing the obligations to be guaranteed or secured. 
 
17.2 Members should in writing (in printed form) advise the surety - 
 
(a) that by giving the guarantee or third party security, the surety 
might become liable instead of or as well as the borrower; 
 
(b) whether the guarantee o r third party security is unlimited as to 
amount (that is to say that the member may agree to extend 
further facilities to the borrower without the consent of the 
surety) and, if so, the implications of such liability (for example, 
that the surety will be liable for all the actual and contingent 
liabilities of the borrower, whether now or in future including for 
further facilities extended to the borrower) and if this is not the 
case, what the limit of the liability will be; 
 
(c) whether the liabilities under t he guarantee or the third party 
security are payable on demand; 
 
(d) under what circumstances the surety would be called upon to 
honour his or her obligations; 
 
(e) under what circumstances, and the timing within which, it would 
be possible for the surety to extin guish his or her liability to a 
member; and 
 
(f) that the surety should seek independent legal advice before 
entering into the guarantee or providing third party security. 
 
17.3 A clear and prominent notice regarding the provisions in section 17.2 

===== PAGE 24 =====

21 
 
above should be included in or attached to the guarantees and other 
third party security documentation. 
 
17.4 Members should provide a surety with an option to choose whether 
the guarantee or third party security should be limited or unlimited in 
amount (as described in section 17.2(b) above). 
 
17.5 For the purpose of section 17.4  above, a limited guarantee or third 
party security may include one which is either - 
 
(a) limited in amount in respect of principal; or 
 
(a) unlimited in amount but is limited to secure one or more specific 
facilities. 
 
and may, with the consent of the surety (and only with the consent of 
the surety), secure additional amounts, further facilities or changed 
facilities (in the case of (a)) or further or changed facilities (in the case 
of (b)) beyond those originally secured. 
 
17.6 Where a guarantee or third party security is unlimited in amount (as 
described in section 17.2(b) above), members should give notice to the 
surety as soon as reasonably practicable when further facilities are 
extended to the borrower or when the  nature of the facilities extended 
to the borrower is changed. 
 
17.7 Subject to the consent of the borrower as required under section 17.9 
below, members should provide the surety with a copy of any formal 
demand for overdue payment that is sent to the borrower  who has 
failed to settle the overdue amount following a customary reminder. 
 
17.8 Subject to the consent of the borrower as required under section 17.9 
below, members should provide, upon request by the surety, a copy of 
the latest statement of account provided to the borrower, if any. 
 
17.9 Before accepting a guarantee or a third party security, members should 
obtain the prescribed consent of the borrower to provide the surety 
with the documents mentioned in sections 17.1, 17.7 and 17.8 above. If 

===== PAGE 25 =====

22 
 
the borrower does  not give consent, the member should inform the 
surety of this in advance so that he or she can decide whether to 
provide the guarantee or the security. 

===== PAGE 26 =====

23 
 
 
Chapter 3–RECOVERY OF LOANS AND ADVANCES 
 
18 Application 
 
This chapter applies to debt collection activities of members, whether undertaken 
directly by members or through third party debt collection agencies. 
 
19 Debt Collection Activities 
 
19.1 It is essential that debt collectors, no matter whether they are the staff 
of the members who are assigned the duty of deb t collection or the 
staff of third party debt collection agencies appointed by the members 
to collect debts on their behalf, should act within the law, refrain from 
action prejudicial to the business, integrity, reputation or goodwill of 
the members for whom they are acting and observe a strict duty of 
confidentiality in respect of customer information. 
 
19.2 With reference to condition 10 of the Merged Licensing Condition s, 
debt collectors must not resort to intimidation or violence, either oral 
or physical, ag ainst any person in their debt recovery actions.  
[Amended in September 2018]  In addition, they should not employ 
harassment or improper debt collection tactics such as the following - 
 
(a) Harassment tactics 
 
(i) putting up posters or writing on the walls of the d ebtor’s 
residence or other actions designed to humiliate the 
debtor publicly; 
 
(ii)  pestering the debtor with persistent phone calls; 
 
(iii)  making telephone calls at unreasonable hours; and 
 
(iv) pestering the debtor’s referees, family members and 
friends for information about the debtor’s whereabouts. 
 
(b) Adopt other unlawful or improper tactics or debt collection 
practices [Amended in September 2018] 
 
(i)  using false names to communicate with the debtor; 

===== PAGE 27 =====

24 
 
 
(ii) making anonymous calls and sending unidentifiable notes 
to the debtor; 
 
(iii)  making abusive or threatening remarks to the debtor; and 
 
(iv) making false or misleading representation with an intent to 
induce the debtor to make a payment. 
 
19.3 Members and their debt collection agencies should not try to recover 
debts, whether directly or indirectly, from anyone unless such person is 
in law indebted to them. Members and their debt collection agencies 
should not try to recover debts, directly or indirectly, from third parties 
including referees, family members or friends of the debtors if t hese 
persons have not entered into a formal contractual agreement with the 
members to guarantee the liabilities of the debtors. Members should 
issue written instructions to their debt collection agencies, or include a 
clause in the contract with their debt  collection agencies, to this effect. 
[Amended in September 2018] 
 
19.4 Members should enter into a formal, contractual relationship with their 
third party debt collection agencies. Members should specify, either in 
the contract or by means of written instructi ons, that the debt 
collectors employed by the debt collection agencies should, among 
other things, observe the requirements stated in sections 19.1, 19.2 and 
19.3 above. 
 
19.5 The contract between members and their debt collection agencies 
should make it clear that the relationship between the member and the 
debt collection agency is one of principal and agent. Members should 
remain accountable to customers for any complaints arising out of debt 
collection by third party debt collection agencies and should not 
disclaim responsibility for misconduct on the part of the debt collection 
agencies. Members should specify in their contract with debt collection 
agencies that the debt collection agencies should not subcontract the 
collection of debts to any other third parties. 
 
19.6 Members intending to use third party debt collection agencies should 
specify in the terms and conditions of credit facilities that they may 
employ third party agencies to collect overdue amounts owed by the 
customers. Members which reserve the right to require customers to 

===== PAGE 28 =====

25 
 
indemnify them, in whole or in part, for the costs and expenses they 
incur in the debt recovery process should include a warning clause to 
that effect in the terms and conditions. 
 
19.7 Members should not pass information about referees or third parties 
other than debtors or guarantors to their debt collection agencies. If 
the referee is to be approached for information to help locate the 
debtor or guarantor, this should be done, without causing nuisance to 
such third parties, by staff of the member. 
 
19.8 Members should give the customer advance written notice (sent to the 
last known address of the customer) of their intention to commission a 
debt collection agency to collect an overdue amount owed to the 
member. The written notice should include the following information - 
 
(a) the overdue amount repayable by the customer; 
 
(b) the length of time the customer has been in default; 
 
(c) the contact telephone number of the member’s debt recovery 
unit which is responsible for overseeing the collection of th e 
customer’s debt to the member; 
 
(d) the extent to which the customer will be liable to reimburse the 
member the costs and expenses incurred in the debt recovery 
process (if the member requires the customer to indemnify it for 
such costs and expenses); and 
 
(e) that the customer should in the first instance report improper 
debt recovery actions taken by the debt collection agency to the 
member. 
 
19.9 Members should not engage more than one debt collection agency to 
pursue the same debt in one jurisdiction at the same time. 
 
19.10 Members should require their debt collection agencies, when collecting 
debts, to identify themselves and the member for whom they are 
acting. Members should issue authorization documents with no 

===== PAGE 29 =====

26 
 
account details to their debt collection agencies whic h should be 
presented to the debtor upon request for identification purposes. 
 
19.11 Members should promptly update the amount of repayment(s) made 
by customers and establish effective communication with their debt 
collection agencies to update so that the debt collection agencies will 
stop immediately all recovery actions once the debts are settled in full 
by the customers. 
 
19.12 If a customer owes several debts to more than one member that are 
being collected by the same debt collection agency, the customer has 
the right to give instructions to apply repayment to a particular debt. 
 
19.13 Members should stop their debt collection activities on a debtor once 
they become aware that a bankruptcy order has been issued in relation 
to the debtor. 
 
19.14 Where the debt collection proce ss is ongoing, the member should as 
far as practicable provide periodic reminders to the customer 
concerned of the overdue amount repayable by the customer. 
 
20 Management of Debt Collection Agencies 
 
20.1 Members should have proper systems and procedures in place  for the 
selection of third party debt collection agencies and the monitoring of 
their performance. These systems and procedures should be subject to 
regular review and should consist of the following essential elements - 
 
(a) a review of the background inform ation of the debt collection 
agency including a company search to identify the owners and 
directors of the debt collection agency; 
 
(b) a basic assessment of the financial soundness of the debt 
collection agency; 
 
(c) a site visit to ascertain the business address of the debt collection 
agency; 

===== PAGE 30 =====

27 
 
(d) an evaluation of the operation of the debt collection agency; and 
 
(e) in the case of appointing a new debt collection agency, a 
procedure to obtain references from at least two of the existing 
clients (preferably members) of the agency. 
 
20.2 Members should encourage their debt collection agencies to aspire to 
the highest professional standards and, where appropriate, to invest in 
suitable systems and technology. 
 
20.3 Debt collection agencies should not be given a free hand as to recove ry 
procedures. Members should establish effective procedures to monitor 
continuously the performance of their debt collection agencies, 
particularly to ensure compliance with the provisions in sections 19.1, 
19.2 and 19.3 above. 
 
20.4 Members should evaluate on a regular basis whether the charges of the 
debt collection agencies employed by them are reasonable having 
regard to the prevailing market practices. They should assess the 
reasonableness of any charge before passing it on to the customer 
concerned. 
 
20.5 Members should keep updated and accurate records of the debt 
collection activities of their debt collection agencies. Members should 
require debt collection agencies to inform customers that all telephone 
communication with customers will be audio recorded and  the purpose 
of doing so, and to keep records of all other contacts with customers. 
Such records should include information on the debt collector making 
the contact; the date, time and place of contact; and a report on the 
contact. Both the audio and the r ecords should be kept for a minimum 
of 30 days after the contact is made. [Amended in September 2018] 
 
20.6 Members should make unscheduled visits to the agencies to inspect 
their professionalism, operational integrity, the involvement of suitably 
trained perso nnel and the adequacy of resources to cope with the 
business volumes assigned to them and to ensure agencies’ compliance 
with their contractual undertakings. 
 
20.7 Members should have established procedures to handle complaints 
received from debtors. They should carry out a careful and diligent 

===== PAGE 31 =====

28 
 
inquiry into the complaint to check whether there is any misconduct on 
the part of the debt collection agency and whether there is any 
violation of the requirements contained in this Code. Members should 
require debt collection agencies to take appropriate remedial actions if 
necessary. 
 
20.8 Members should maintain a register of complaints about improper 
actions taken by their debt collection agencies and should respond 
promptly to the complainants after investigation. 
 
20.9 Members should not delegate authority to debt collection agencies to 
institute legal proceedings against customers without the members’ 
formal approval. 
 
20.10 Where members are aware that their debt collection agencies perform 
similar functions for other members, th e sharing of information as to 
their performance, approach, attitude, behaviour etc. is encouraged. 
 
20.11 Members should bring apparently illegal behaviour by debt collection 
agencies to the attention of the Police. Members should also consider 
whether to termi nate the relationship with a debt collection agency if 
they are aware of unacceptable practices of that agency or breaches of 
its contractual undertakings. 

===== PAGE 32 =====

29 
 
USEFUL DEFINITIONS 
 
These definitions explain the meaning of words and terms used in the Code. They are 
not precise legal or technical definitions. 
 
Additional Licensing Conditions 
 
Additional Licensing Conditions of Money Lenders Licence introduced by the 
Companies Registry which took effect from 1 December 2016.  
 
Annual Percentage Rate or APR – 
 
The true annual percentage rate of interest calculated in accordance with Schedule 2 
of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163). 
 
Authorized agents - 
 
Agents authorized by a member to deal with customers to provide services on its 
behalf in relation to the prov ision of money lending services, when acting in their 
capacity as agents for a member. 
 
Credit references - 
 
A credit reference is an opinion about a particular customer’s ability to enter into or 
repay a financial commitment. It is given by a member, to a n enquirer, with the 
prescribed consent of the customer concerned. Typically, the reference will cover 
information confirming that an account is held and how long for. It indicates the 
customer’s financial position but is not intended to be conclusive proo f of the 
customer’s position. 
 
Credit reference agencies - 
 
Any data user who carries on a business of compiling and disseminating personal 
information, of a factual nature, about the credit history of individuals, whether or 
not that business is the role or principal activity of that data user. 
 
Customer - 
 
A private individual who - 
 

===== PAGE 33 =====

30 
 
(a) maintains an account in Hong Kong with, a member; or 
 
(b) acts as guarantor or provider of third party security (whether or not the 
guarantor or provider of third party security is a customer of the member) for a 
borrower who is an individual or otherwise. 
 
Day - 
 
Day means calendar day if not otherwise specified. 
 
Guarantee - 
 
An undertaking given by a person called the guarantor promising to pay the debts of 
another person if that other person fails to do so. 
 
Members - 
 
Members of the Hong Kong S.A.R. Licensed Money Lenders Association Limited. 
 
Merged Licensing Conditions 
 
The licensing conditions for money lenders licences granted or renewed after 1 
December 2016, comprising the then existing licensing conditions and the Additional 
Licensing Conditions.  
 
Prescribed consent - 
 
Express consent of a customer given voluntarily. 
 
Promotional material - 
 
Any literature or information which is designed to help sell a product or servi ce to a 
customer. This does not include information relating to service enhancements and 
changes to customers’ existing accounts which need to be sent to the customers to 
meet legislative and regulative requirements or which may be sent where it is in the 
interest of customers. 
 
Related companies - 
 
This refers to a member’s subsidiary, holding company or a subsidiary of the holding 
company. 

===== PAGE 34 =====

31 
 
 
Security - 
 
A word used to describe the mortgaging or charging of assets as support for loans 
granted to customers. If the loans are not repaid the member’s position is “secured” 
which means that it can sell the assets to meet the amount outstanding on the loan. 
 
Third party security - 
 
Security provided by a person who is not the borrower. 

===== PAGE 35 =====

32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1(a): 
Money Lenders Licence - Additional Licensing 
Conditions 

===== PAGE 36 =====

33 
 
The following additional licensing conditions took effect from 1 December 2016. 
 
 
MONEY LENDERS LICENCE 
ADDITIONAL LICENSING CONDITIONS 
 
1. Before entering into any agreement for loan, the money lender 
(a) shall ask the intending borrower to state whether or not he has entered into or 
signed any agreement (“the third party agreement”) with any person (“third party”) 
for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or application of the loan, 
guaranteeing or securing the repayment of the loan (other than an agreement with 
solicitors instructed by the intending borrower for the provision of legal services 
solely); 
(b) shall state in writing the intending borrower’s reply in relation to Condition 1(a) 
above in the loan agreement; and 
(c) if the intending borrower’s reply in relation to Condition 1(a) above is in the 
affirmative, shall further 
(i) obtain from the intending borrower the name and address of the third party; 
(ii) state in writing in the loan agreement the name and address of the third party 
and whether the money lender is in any way related to the third party and the 
nature of such relationship; 
(iii) ask the intending borrower to personally provide a copy of the third party 
agreement; and 
(iv) attach the third party agreement to the loan agreement. 
 
2. The money lender shall not grant or agree to grant any loan to any intending borrower if 
the intending borrower’s reply in relation to Condition 1(a) above is in the affirmative, 
unless the third party as identified in Condition 1(c) above: 
(a) is a person appointed by the money lender (“appointed third party”) for or  in 
relation to granting a loan to any intending borrower or any specified class of 
intending borrower, whether as to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining, appli cation, 
guaranteeing or securing the repayment of such a loan; and 
(b) has, specifically in respect of the loan, confirmed in writing to the money lender that 
(i) he has not charged, recovered, demanded or received and will not  charge, 
recover, demand or receive any fees, charges, reward or consideration, however 
named, from such intending borrower for or in relation to the procuring, 
negotiation, obtaining or application of the loan or guaranteeing or securing the 
repayment of the loan; and 
(ii) he has not otherwise ag reed with the intending borrower that the intending 
borrower pays or would pay any fees, charges, reward or consideration, 
however named, to any other party whether for the purchase of any goods or 
services or not. 

===== PAGE 37 =====

34 
 
3. For the purposes of Condition 2, 
(a) the money lender shall provide in writing to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of 
Police and the Registrar of Money Lenders the name, address and identification 
number (including identification card/passport, business registration and company 
number as applicable) of any appointed third party; and 
(b) the third party as identified in Condition 1(c) above is not considered as an 
appointed third party until after the name and address of the appointed third party 
appear on the Register kept by the Registrar of Money Lenders. 
 
4. (a) The money lender shall not knowingly allow or permit any person, whether the 
money lender, or his partner, employer, employee, principal or agent or any person 
acting for him or any appointed third party, to charge, recover, demand or receive 
any fees, charges, reward or consideration, however named, from any borrower or 
intending borrower for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or 
application of a loan or guaranteeing or securing the repayment of a loan. 
(b) The prohibition  in Condition 4(a) above also covers any fees, charges, reward or 
consideration, however named, to be paid by the borrower or intending borrower to 
the appointed third party or any other person as agreed between the 
borrower/intending borrower and the appointed third party, whether for the purchase 
of any goods or services or not. 
 
5. The money lender shall not obtain or collect personal data of any person from another 
person or use such personal data obtained or collected from another person for the 
purpose o f or in relation to the money lender’s business (a) without the written 
confirmation from that other person that the disclosure/provision of such personal data 
by that other person for such use of the money lender is not in contravention of the 
provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap. 486; or (b) when the money 
lender has knowledge, or has reasonable grounds to believe, that the disclosure/provision 
of the personal data by that other person for such use of the money lender is likely to be 
in contravention of the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap. 486. 
The money lender must also keep records which show that he complies with this 
requirement and the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. 
 
6. Before entering into any agreement for loan, the money lender must give explanation to 
the intending borrower of all the terms of the agreement, in particular the terms in 
relation to repayment, namely, 
(a) the interest rate expressed as a rate per cent per annum and the total amount of 
interest payable under the agreement; 
(b) amounts of repayments, periodically and in total, under the agreement; 
(c) the possible consequences for any default in repayment, including – 
(i) the taking into possession and sale of any security involved (includi ng the 
property charged, if any); and 
(ii) any overriding right of the money lender to demand an immediate repayment. 
The money lender must also keep written or video or audio records which show that he 
complies with the requirements under this condition. 

===== PAGE 38 =====

35 
 
7. The money lender shall provide information relating to his money lending business 
during the term of the licence as may be required by the Registrar of Money Lenders or 
the Commissioner of Police and such information shall be provided within such time as 
the Registrar of Money Lenders or the Commissioner of Police may specify. 
 
8. The money lender shall not accept a subsidized flat provided by the Hong Kong Housing 
Authority as collateral for the loan to the borrower unless the borrower has produced to 
the money lender either– 
(a) a written confirmation from the Hong Kong Housing Authority that the necessary 
premium for removing the restrictions on alienation on the said flat has been fully 
paid; or 
(b) the written approval of the Director of Housing granting approval to m ortgage or 
charge the said flat. 
 
9. Any advertisement in relation to the money lending business of a money lender issued 
or published by the money lender, in his own name or through any other person, whether 
in textual, audio or visual form, must contain the  money lender’s telephone hotline for 
handling complaints and a risk warning statement (in the same language as that of the 
advertisement or the relevant part thereof) as set out below, both of which must be 
prominent and easily legible in the written or v isual part of the advertisement. The risk 
warning statement must also be clearly audible in the audio part of the advertisement: 
 
- “忠告: 借錢梗要還，咪俾錢中介” 
- “Warning: You have to repay your loans. Don’t pay any intermediaries.” 
 
10. The money lender must establish and maintain proper systems and procedures to ensure 
that the money lender, or his partners, employers, employees, principals or agents, any 
persons acting for him and any appointed third parties shall be informed of and observe 
the licensing conditions and the provisions of the Money Lenders Ordinance. 

===== PAGE 39 =====

36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1(b):  
Guidelines on Additional Licensing Conditions 
of Money Lenders Licence 

===== PAGE 40 =====

37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guidelines on 
Additional Licensing Conditions 
of Money Lenders Licence 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 2016 


===== PAGE 41 =====

38 
 
Contents 
Introduction 
 
Conditions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 
Condition 5 
Condition 7 
Condition 8 
Condition 9 
Condition 10 
 
Annex 
 
1. Sample form on disclosure of the existence of third parties 
by intending borrowers 
 
2. Sample form on confirmation by appointed third party on the 
charging of fees 
 
3. Sample form on reporting by licensees of particulars or 
changes in particulars of or termination of appointment of 
appointed third parties of licensees 
 
4. Guidance for meeting the requirements on the display / 
broadcast of risk warni ng statement for different types of 
advertisements 

===== PAGE 42 =====

39 
 
Introduction 
 
 
Under the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163) (“MLO”), no person 
shall carry on business as a money lender without a licence granted 
under section 11 of the MLO. A licence shall be subject t o such 
conditions as the licensing court may impose. 
 
In recent years, there have been increasing public concerns that 
deceptive tactics are being used by fraudsters who claim themselves 
to be financial intermediaries for money lending to induce intending 
borrowers to engage them for arranging loans with money lenders and 
charge very high fees under different pretexts in the process. 
 
To combat the problem, the additional licensing conditions imposed 
on money lenders seek to facilitate effective enforcement  of the 
statutory ban on separate fee charging by money lenders and their 
connected parties, ensure better protection of privacy of intending 
borrowers, enhance transparency and disclosure, and promote the 
importance of prudent borrowing. The additional li censing conditions 
will be applicable with effect from 1 December 2016. 
 
This set of Guidelines aim to provide guidance for money lender 
licensees on the requirements of the additional licensing conditions. 
They are without prejudice to the requirements of  the MLO and 
licensees should continue to comply with all the provisions of the 
MLO and all other laws in Hong Kong as are applicable to them. 
 
In cases of doubts, licensed money lenders are advised to seek 
independent legal advice as they see fit. 
 
 
 
Registrar of Money Lenders 
October 2016 

===== PAGE 43 =====

40 
 
Conditions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 1 
 
 
 
Condition 1 
 
Before entering into any agreement for loan, the money lender 
(a) shall ask the intending borrower to state whether or not he has 
entered into or  signed any agreement (“the third party 
agreement”) with any person (“third party”) for or in relation to 
the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or application of the loan, 
guaranteeing or securing the repayment of the loan (other than 
an agreement with sol icitors instructed by the intending 
borrower for the provision of legal services solely); 
(b) shall state in writing the intending borrower’s reply in relation 
to Condition 1(a) above in the loan agreement; and 
(c) if the intending borrower’s reply in relation to Condition 1(a) 
above is in the affirmative, shall further 
(i) obtain from the intending borrower the name and address  
of the third party; 
(ii) state in writing in the loan agreement the name and address 
of the third party and whether the money lender is in any 
way related to the third party and the nature of such 
relationship; 
(iii) ask the intending borrower to personally provide a copy of 
the third party agreement; and 
(iv) attach the third party agreement to the loan agreement. 
 
 
 
 
1 References in the additional licensing conditions and this Guideline to  the  
masculine gender include the feminine gender. 
 
Condition 2 
 
The money lender shall not grant or agree to grant any loan to any 
intending borrower if the intending borrower’s reply in relation to 
Condition 1(a) above is in the affirmative, unless the third party as 
identified in Condition 1(c) above: 
 
(a) is a person appointed by the money lender (“appointed third 
party”) for or in relation to granting a loan to any intending 

===== PAGE 44 =====

41 
 
 
 
 
borrower or any specified class of intending borrower, whether 
as to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining, application, 
guaranteeing or securing the repayment of such a loan; and 
 
has, specifically in respect of the loan, confirmed in writing to 
the money lender that 
 
he has not charged, recovered, demanded or received and 
will not charge, recover, demand or receive any fees, 
charges, reward or consideration, however named, from 
such intending borrower for or rel ating to the procuring, 
negotiation, obtaining or application of the loan or 
guaranteeing or securing the repayment of the loan; and 
he has not otherwise agreed with the intending borrower 
that the intending borrower pay or would pay any fees, 
charges, rew ard or consideration, however named, to any 
other party whether for the purchase of any goods or 
services or not. 
 
Condition 3 
 
For the purposes of Condition 2, 
 
the money lender shall provide in writing to the satisfaction of 
the Commissioner of Police a nd the Registrar of Money 
Lenders the name, address and identification number (including 
identification card/passport, business registration and company 
number as applicable) of any appointed third party; and 
the third party as identified in Condition 1(c)  above is not 
considered as an appointed third party until after the name and 
address of the appointed third party appear on the Register kept 
by the Registrar of Money Lenders. 
 
Condition 4 
 
(a) The money lender shall not knowingly allow or permit any pe rson, 
whether the money lender, or his partner, employer, employee, 
principal or agent or any person acting for him or any appointed 
third party, to charge, recover, demand or receive any fees, 

===== PAGE 45 =====

42 
 
 
 
 
1. Conditions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 set out the obligations of licensees to 
undertake due diligence checks before entering into a loan agreement 
with an intending borrower. 
charges, reward or consideration, however named, from any 
borrower or intending borrower for or relating to the procuring, 
negotiation, obtaining or application of a loan or guaranteeing or 
securing the repayment of a loan. 
(b) The prohibition in Condition 4(a) above also covers any fees, 
charges, reward or consider ation, however named, to be paid by  
the borrower or intending borrower to the appointed third party or 
any other person as agreed between the borrower/intending 
borrower and the appointed third party, whether for the purchase of 
any goods or services or not. 
 
Condition 6 
 
Before entering into any agreement for loan, the money lender must give 
explanation to the intending borrower of all the terms of the agreement, 
in particular the terms in relation to repayment, namely, 
 
the interest rate expressed as a rate per cent per annum and the 
total amount of interest payable under the agreement; 
amounts of repayments, periodically and in total, under the 
agreement; 
the possible consequences for any default in repayment, 
including – 
the taking into possession and sale of any security involved 
(including the property charged, if any); and 
any overriding right of the money lender to demand an 
immediate repayment. 
 
The money lender must also keep written or video or audio records 
which show that he complies with the requirements under this condition. 

===== PAGE 46 =====

43 
 
Pre-contractual explanation to intending borrowers 
2. Before entering into any loan agreement, the licensee should clearly 
explain to the intending borrower all the terms and conditions of the 
loan agreement, in particular the terms of repayment, including: 
(a) the interest rate expressed as a rate per cent per annum; 
(b) the maximum amount of interest payable under the agreement; 
(c) the amounts of repayments periodically under the agreement; 
(d) the amount of repayment in total (sum of the principal and 
maximum amount of interest payable) under the agreement; 
(e) all the possible consequences for any default in repayment, in 
particular the licensee’s taking into possession and sale of any 
security involved (including the property charged, if any); and 
(f) the o verriding right (if any) of the licensee to demand an 
immediate repayment. 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Even where the intending borrower states that there is no need for an 
explanation, the licensee should still comply with the requirement to 
provide an explanation before entering into any loan agreement. 
4. Licensees should keep records which show their compliance with the 
requirement of giving explanation to the intending borrowers of all 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.  The records can be kept  
in either one of the th ree formats: written, video or audio form. The 
records should show in details what have been explained to the 
intending borrowers. A mere acknowledgement by the intending 
borrower that the terms of the agreement have been explained to him 
is not sufficient. 
Explanatory note 
This is to ensure that the intending borrower understands the 
terms and conditions of the loan agreement so that he is able to 
make a conscious decision whether to sign the loan agreement. 

===== PAGE 47 =====

44 
 
 
 
 
 
Ascertaining the existence of third parties for or in relation to the loan 
5. Before entering into any loan agreement, a licensee should ascertain 
from an intending borrower as to the existence of any third party 
involved in a loan transaction. 
6. The li censee should ask the intending borrower whether he has 
entered into or signed any agreement, (“third party agreement”) with 
any third party (“third party”) for or in relation to the procuring, 
negotiation, obtaining or application of the loan, guaranteein g or 
securing the repayment of the loan. 
7. The licensee should explain to the intending borrower that whether 
one will be regarded as a third party will depend on whether the 
intending borrower has entered into or signed any agreement with this 
party for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or 
application of the loan, guaranteeing or securing the repayment of the 
loan. To help the intending borrower understand the question, the 
licensee may specifically enquire if there is any of the follow ing 
persons involved in any way in connection with the loan transaction: 
agreement have been explained to him. 
The licensee may prepare a document with notes of the 
explanations given to the intending borrower with the date, time, 
and venue when the explanation takes place duly recorded, and a 
copy of the document signed by the licensee and the intending 
borrower should be given to the latter for retention and reference. 
an 
the 
acknowledgement simply declaring that the terms of 
Illustrative example for reference 
If a licensee chooses to keep written records to show compliance 
with the requirement of explaining to an intending borrower, he 
should not ask the intending borrower to sign 

===== PAGE 48 =====

45 
 
 
(a) a person who claims to provide professional (e.g. accounting or 
legal) or financial assessment services (e.g. stress test, debt 
restructuring, property valuation or improving credit  records, etc.) 
for facilitating the intending borrower to arrange the loan; 
(b) a person who claims to be a representative of a bank or a money 
lender who can arrange a loan for the intending borrower; 
(c) a person who requests the intending borrower to d eposit a portion 
of the loan that would be obtained from the licensee with him for 
custody (whether as proof of the intending borrower’s cash flow 
allegedly to help improve the latter’s credit record for increasing 
the chance of arranging a low-interest loan later or otherwise); or 
(d) a person who requests the intending borrower to pay a portion of 
the loan that would be obtained from the licensee to him or any 
other party under different pretexts allegedly for the purchase of 
goods or services, e.g. purch asing an “investment fund”, or 
otherwise. 
The above list is not exhaustive, and licensees are encouraged to seek 
other necessary clarification from the borrower as appropriate. 
8. The licensee should explain to the intending borrower that the 
disclosure of th e existence of any third party is to protect the 
intending borrower’s interests, as this is one of the measures to help 
ensure that the intending borrower would not be subject to separate 
fee charging by any third party. 
9. Licensees must not do any act to di ssuade or deter an intending 
borrower from disclosing the existence of a third party involved in the 
loan transaction. 

===== PAGE 49 =====

46 
 
 
Illustrative examples for reference 
 
 
Case 1 – car dealers 
If a car dealer introduces and refers vehicle loans provided by a 
licensee to an intending borrower and has entered into or signed an 
agreement for the purpose with the latter, he will be considered a 
third party even if the car dealer only receives a commission from 
the licensee and does not charge the intending borrower any fee . 
The licensee will have an obligation to register this car dealer with 
the Registrar of Money Lenders. On the other hand, if the car 
dealer does not enter into any separate agreement with the 
intending borrower for or in relation to the loan, he will not be 
considered as a third party under the new licensing Conditions. 
 
 
Case 2 – friends and relatives 
If the intending borrower is referred to the licensee by his friend or 
relative where the borrower has entered into any agreement with 
his friend or relative for or in relation to the  procuring, negotiation, 
obtaining or application of the loan or guaranteeing or securing the 
repayment of the loan, such agreement should be regarded as a 
third party agreement and his friend or relative will be regarded as 
a third party under the conditions. 
 
 
Case 3 – authorised sales agents of licensees 
A licensee may have employed sales agents for soliciting business 
for them. If the sales agent does not enter into or sign  any  
separate agreement between himself and the int ending borrower 
for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or 
application of the loan or guaranteeing or securing the repayment 
of the loan with the licensee concerned, that sales agent is not to 
be considered as a third party. 

===== PAGE 50 =====

47 
 
 
 
 
10. An agr eement between the intending borrower and a solicitor in 
connection with the loan agreement is not regarded as a third party 
agreement if the solicitor is instructed by the intending borrower to 
solely provide legal services (e.g. vetting of the loan docum entation). 
But if the solicitor also provides an intermediary service in relation to 
the granting of the loan, he is a third party and licensees must follow 
the required steps as stated in paragraphs 13 - 25  below.  The  
licensee should explain this clearly to the intending borrower. 
11. The intending borrower’s response to the above question should be 
stated in writing and form part of the loan agreement. For easy 
reference, a sample form on the disclosure of the existence of any 
third party in relation to the loan can be found at Annex 1. 
 
 
Where no third parties are involved 
12. Where the intending borrower confirms that he has not entered into or 
signed any relevant agreement with any third parties, the licensee 
should state this in writing in the loan agreemen t. If a licensee has 
done any act to dissuade or deter an intending borrower from 
 
 
Case 4 – multiple referrals 
In some cases, more than one third parties may be involved (e.g. 
an intending borrower engages Person A in applying for a loan. 
Person A then refers the case to Person B. Person B eventually 
refers the borrower’s application to the licensee.). As long as any 
party has entered into an agreement with the intending borrower 
for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining o r 
application of the loan or guaranteeing or securing the repayment 
of the loan, he will be regarded as a third party. For instance, if 
only Person A enters into an agreement with the intending 
borrower while Person B has never entered into any agreement 
with the intending borrower, only Person A will be considered as a 
third party. 

===== PAGE 51 =====

48 
 
disclosing the existence of a third party, the licensee may be regarded 
as having breached Condition 1. 
 
 
Third parties disclosed by intending borrowers 
13. If the intending bor rower confirms that he has entered into or signed 
an agreement with a third party for or in relation to the loan, the 
licensee should ask the intending borrower to personally provide a 
copy of the third party agreement. 
 
 
 
 
14. The licensee should explain to the intending borrower that such third 
party agreement should be personally provided by the latter (and must 
not be through the appointed third party or any person connected with 
the third party), and that this is to ensure that the intending borrower 
is in full picture of what he has agreed with the third party. 
15. The licensee should withhold from entering into a loan agreement 
with the intending borrower if the intending borrower fails to 
personally provide a copy of the third party agreement to the licensee 
so that he is unable to attach a copy of the third party agreement to the 
loan agreement. 
16. A licensee should carefully check the name and address of the third 
party shown on the third party agreement provided by the intending 
borrower against the list of appointed third parties maintained by the 
Registrar of Money Lenders (“the Registrar”) [see paragraphs 26 to 
33]. 
Explanatory note 
This is to ensure that the licensee can take appropriate steps to 
ascertain that the third party involved is his appointed third party 
who is registered with t he Registrar of Money Lenders and that 
the third party agreement does not contain any clause that 
breaches the requirement on no separate fee charging. 

===== PAGE 52 =====

49 
 
17. If the third party as shown on the third party agreement is not an 
appointed third party of the licensee whose appointment has been 
registered by the Registrar and appears in the Register kept by the 
Registrar, the licensee shall not enter into any loan agreement with the 
intending borrower. 
18. Where the third party involved is an appointed third party of the 
licensee, the licensee should state in writing in the loan agreement: 
(a) the name and address of the third party; 
(b) whether the licensee is in any way related to the third party; and 
(c) the nature of relationship between the licensee and the third party. 
(e.g. appointed third parties and, wher e applicable, parent 
company, subsidiary, fellow subsidiary etc.). 
The third party agreement obtained should then be attached to the 
loan agreement. In this regard, licensees should ensure that their 
appointed third parties are aware of this requirement and adopt proper 
practice in their course of dealings with intending borrowers so that 
there will not be any difficulty for intending borrowers to obtain and 
provide to the licensees a copy of the third party agreement. 
 
 
Prohibition of fee charging by licensee’s staff, agents and appointed third 
parties etc. 
19. A licensee should not allow or permit any person, whether the 
licensee, his staff, agents, appointed third parties and other persons 
acting for the licensee to charge, recover, demand or receive any fees , 
charges, reward or consideration, however named, from any borrower 
or intending borrower for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, 
obtaining or application of a loan or guaranteeing or securing the 
repayment of a loan. 
20. Nor should a licensee allow or permit any appointed third party to, for 
or in relation to the loan, enter into or sign an agreement with the 
borrower or intending borrower under which the borrower or 
intending borrower shall pay any fees, charges, reward or 
consideration to any party, whether for the purchase of goods or 
services or not. 

===== PAGE 53 =====

50 
 
 
21. A licensee should not simply adopt a passive stance without taking 
appropriate steps to ascertain compliance with the licensing 
conditions and the MLO by his appointed third parties. In particular,  
he should check and ensure that there is no fee charging provision in 
the third party agreement provided by the intending borrower. He 
should also ensure that his appointed third parties are aware of and 
comply with the prohibition on charging prospective  borrowers any 
fees under the licensing conditions and the MLO. 
22. A licensee should not enter into the loan agreement with the borrower 
if the third party agreement contains any term/provision which shows 
that the third party has charged or intends to charge  the borrower any 
fee (under whatever pretexts and however the fee is named), whether 
it is for the purchase of goods or services from the third party or 
another party. If a licensee is aware that an intending borrower has 
been charged any fees by his appo inted third party, he should liaise 
with the appointed third party concerned for rectifying the problem 
and such third party agreement should be  rescinded.  If  the  
appointed third party refuses, the licensee should terminate the 
appointment and bring the matter to the attention of Police and report 
the termination of appointment to the Registrar. 
 
 
 
 
23. For each proposed loan transaction, a licensee should, before entering 
into the relevant loan agreement, obtain a written confirmation from 
the appointed third party involved that the appointed third party: 
(a) has not charged, recovered, demanded or received and will not 
charge, recover, demand or receive any fees, charges, reward or 
Illustrative example for reference 
If the borrower is required by the third party to make a payment 
to another party after the loan has been granted, say, for the 
purchase of an investment fund unit, a licensee should not enter 
into a loan agreement with the borrower, and review whether the 
third party should continue to be appointed by him. 

===== PAGE 54 =====

51 
 
consideration, however named, from the intending borrower for 
or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or 
application of the loan or guaranteeing or securing the 
repayment of the loan; and 
(b) has not otherwise agreed with the intending borrower that the 
intending borrower pay or would pay any fees, charges, 
rewards or c onsideration, however named, to any other party 
whether for the purchase of any goods or services or not. 
24. In addition to the requirement under paragraph 23 above, a licensee 
should check and ensure there is no fee charging provision in the third 
party agreement. 
25. For ready reference, a sample form on the written confirmation to be 
provided by the appointed third party can be found at Annex 2. 
 
 
Reporting of appointed third parties 
26. Licensees should keep an updated list of all their appointed third 
parties. 
27. The Registrar has provided the following forms for use by licensees 
to report about their appointed third parties: 
(a) Notice of Particulars of Third Party Appointed by Licensed 
Money Lenders in relation to Granting of Loans 
(Form ML-ATP-1); 
(b) Notice of Changes in  Particulars of Appointed Third Party of 
Licensed Money Lenders (Form ML-ATP-2); 
(c) Notice of Termination of Appointment of Appointed Third 
Party of Licensed Money Lenders (Form ML-ATP-3) 
Samples of these forms can be found at Annex 3. 
28. All forms should be properly completed and signed by the licensees. 
29. For the purpose of reporting, a licensee should provide the name, 
address and identification number of any person appointed by him for 
or in relation to the granting of loans. 

===== PAGE 55 =====

52 
 
 
30. For an appointed third party who is an individual, a copy of his Hong 
Kong Identity Card or Passport (in the absence of a Hong Kong 
Identity Card) should be provided together with the relevant form. 
31. Particulars of appointed third party reported to the Registrar will 
generally be registere d in two working days after receipt of the 
relevant form. Completed forms should therefore be delivered to the 
Registrar for registration as early as possible. A licensee should not 
grant a loan to an intending borrower if the loan involves an 
appointed third party whose particulars have not yet appeared on the 
Register kept by the Registrar. 
32. Any subsequent changes in the particulars of an appointed third party 
should also be reported in writing to the Registrar within 21 days after 
the change by using Form  ML-ATP-2 and the Registrar may in 
respect of any such change enter such particulars, or alter any 
particulars entered, in the Register as the Registrar thinks fit. 
33. It will be in the licensees’ own interest to report any cessation of their 
appointment of a ny third party to the Registrar as soon as possible, 
and in any case the licensee should report to the Registrar within 21 
days after the cessation takes place by using Form ML-ATP-3. The 
Registrar will then update the list of appointed third parties of 
licensees kept in the Register of Money Lenders. 

===== PAGE 56 =====

53 
 
Condition 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34. For the purpose of the money lending business, if licensees want to 
obtain or collect the personal data of any person from another party or 
use such data, they must: 
(a) obtain written confirmation from that party that the disclosure / 
provision of such personal data by that party for such use of the 
licensee is not in contravention of the provisions of the 
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486) 
 
Condition 5 
 
The money lender shall not obtain or collect personal data of any person 
from another person or use such personal data obtained or collected from 
another person for the purpose of or in re lation to the money lender’s 
business (a) without the written confirmation from that other person that 
the disclosure/provision of such personal data by that other person for  
such use of the money lender is not in contravention of the provisions of 
the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap. 486; or (b) when the money 
lender has knowledge, or has reasonable grounds to believe, that the 
disclosure/provision of the personal data by that other person for such use 
of the money lender is likely to be in contrav ention of the provisions of  
the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap. 486.  The  money  lender 
must also keep records which show that he complies with this requirement 
and the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. 
Explanatory note 
The additional condition requires licensees to take steps to ensure 
that when collecting or receiving personal data from another 
person, they will not take part in any unlawful disclosure or use of 
personal data. 

===== PAGE 57 =====

54 
 
 
AND 
(b) satisfy themselves that there is no r easonable ground to believe 
that the disclosure / provision of the personal data by that party 
for such use of the licensee is likely to be in contravention of 
the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. 
35. For compliance with Condition 5(b), lic ensees must not merely rely 
on the written confirmation provided by that party without going 
through a proper procedure to satisfy themselves that the disclosure or 
provision of the personal data is not likely to be in contravention of 
the provisions of th e Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. Generally 
speaking, licensees should, among other things – 
(a) request that party to explain how the personal data are obtained; 
(b) ascertain whether that party may have access to the personal 
data in his current or previous employment(s); 
(c) if so, ask that party to provide appropriate proof showing that 
the latter has been duly authorised to disclose or provide the 
personal data to the licensees; and 
(d) if in doubt, licensees should contact the relevant employer(s) of 
the party to verify. 
36. Licensees should be particularly vigilant if the party providing the 
personal data appear to be employed or has been employed by 
telecommunication service providers or financial institutions (such as 
banks, insurance companies and securities brokers). 
37. For the purpose of Condition 5(a), licensees may accept a 
confirmation from the other parties covering the full duration of their 
service contracts instead of requiring a written confirmation from the 
other parties each time they collect or receive per sonal data from 
them. 

===== PAGE 58 =====

55 
 
 
38. Licensees must keep record of the written confirmation obtained and 
any other records which show their compliance with Condition 5 and 
the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. On record -
keeping, licensees may refer t o paragraphs 56 to 57 under Condition 
10 for more practical guidance. 
 
 
 
Illustrative example for reference 
When a licensee is offered or provided with bulk personal data by 
a person who is a former employee of a bank, he should take 
reasonable steps to ascertain that person has the right to access 
and transfer the personal data concerned, e.g. ask that person for 
an appropri ate proof of authorisation by the bank or consents 
given by the relevant customers of the bank to the disclosure or 
use of their personal data by the licensee. 

===== PAGE 59 =====

56 
 
Condition 7 
 
 
 
 
39. Licensees must provide information relating to their money lending 
businesses as required by the Registrar or the Commissioner of Police 
during the term of the respective licences. 
40. Licensees must provide the required information within such time as 
specified by the Registrar or the Commissioner of Police. 
 
Condition 7 
 
The money lender shall provide information relating to his money 
lending business during the term of the licence as may be required by the 
Registrar of Money Lenders or the Commissioner of Police and such 
information shall be provided within such time as the Registrar of Money 
Lenders or the Commissioner of Police may specify. 

===== PAGE 60 =====

57 
 
Condition 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41. Before entering into a loan agreement which involves accepting a 
subsidized flat as collatera l, the licensee must obtain from the 
borrower either of the following: 
(a) a written confirmation from the Hong Kong Housing Authority 
that the necessary premium for removing the restrictions on 
alienation on the relevant flat has been fully paid; or 
(b) the written approval of the Director of Housing to mortgage or 
charge the relevant flat. 
The use or acceptance of a subsidized flat provided by Hong Kong 
Housing Authority as collateral without first removing the restrictions 
on alienation on the flat or obtaining the Director of Housing’s 
relevant prior approval would render the licensee and the intending 
borrower liable to prosecution for an offence under the Housing 
Ordinance (Cap. 283) and the charge or mortgage concerned shall be 
void. 
 
Condition 8 
 
The money lender shall not accept a subsidized flat provided  by the 
Hong Kong Housing Authority as collateral unless the borrower has 
produced to the money lender either– 
 
a written confirmation from the Hong Kong Housing Authority that 
the necessary premium for removing the restrictions on alienation 
on the said flat has been fully paid; or 
 
the written approval of the Director of Housing to mortgage or 
charge the said flat. 

===== PAGE 61 =====

58 
 
Condition 9 
 
 
 
Content of the advertisement 
42. Any advertisement in relation to the money lending business of a 
licensee issued or published by the licensee, in his own name or 
through any other person (including but not limited to the licensee’s 
agents and appointed third parties), must contain: 
(a) the licensee’s telephone hotline for handling complaints; and 
(b) a risk warning statement : 
[“忠告: 借錢梗要還，咪俾錢中介”] 
 
[“Warning: You have to repay your loans. Don’t pay 
any intermediaries”] 
43. In particular, if the licensee asks any other person, e.g. the licensee’s 
agents or appointed third parties, to issue an advertisement about the 
licensee’s money len ding business, irrespective of whether or  not 
such advertisement is issued in the name of the licensee, the 
requirement under Condition 9 will still apply to such advertisement 
and the licensee should ensure compliance with the Condition. 
 
Condition 9 
 
Any advertisement in relation to the money lending business  of a money 
lender issued or published by the money lender, in his own name or 
through any other person, whether in textual, audio or visual form, must 
contain the money lender’s telephone hotline for handling complaints 
and a risk warning statement (in th e same language as that of the 
advertisement or the relevant part thereof) as set out below, both of 
which must be prominent and easily legible in the written or visual part 
of the advertisement. The risk warning statement must also be clearly 
audible in the audio part of the advertisement: 
 
"忠告: 借錢梗要還，咪俾錢中介" 
"Warning: You have to repay your loans. Don’t pay any 
intermediaries." 

===== PAGE 62 =====

59 
 
 
44. The display or  broadcast of the required information as stated in 
paragraph 42 must be prominent and easily legible in the written or 
visual part of the advertisement and clearly audible in the audio part of 
an advertisement (as the case may be). 
45. The risk warning statem ent must be displayed or broadcast in the  
same language as that of the advertisement itself (or the relevant part 
thereof). The use of a single language for display or broadcast of 
warning statement is acceptable for monolingual advertisements. 
46. Practical guidance as to how the risk warning statement should be 
displayed or broadcast in different forms of advertisements so as to 
meet the requirements is set out in Annex 4. 
47. For the telephone hotline for handling complaints, it should be 
displayed (but not necessarily read out) in audio-visual advertisements. 
However, for audio advertisement with no visual display, such 
telephone hotline should be audible and clearly read out in a  voice -
over in the same pace as the other contents of the advertisement. 

===== PAGE 63 =====

60 
 
Condition 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48. Licensees should establish and maintain proper systems and 
procedures to ensure that they themselves, their employees, agents, 
any persons acting for them and any appointed third parties are 
informed of and observe the licensing conditions and  the provisions 
of the MLO. 
 
 
Management and supervision 
49. Detailed policies and procedures pertaining to authorisations and 
approvals, as well as the authority of key positions for the compliance 
of statutory obligations should be clearly defined and commun icated 
to and followed by staff, agents, appointed third parties and any 
persons acting for the licensees. 
50. Reporting lines should be clearly identified with supervisory and 
reporting responsibilities assigned to appropriate staff members. 
51. Licensees should establish procedures to ensure the proper handling 
of customers’ complaints and that appropriate remedial actions are 
taken. They should ensure that all their staff, agents, appointed third 
parties and other persons acting for them who deal with intending 
borrowers or borrowers are aware of the complaint procedures and  
are able to provide customers with correct information about the 
procedures. 
 
Condition 10 
 
The money lender must establish and maintain proper systems and 
procedures to ensure that the money lender, or his partners, employers, 
employees, princ ipals or agents, any persons acting for him and any 
appointed third parties shall be informed of and observe the licensing 
conditions and the provisions of the Money Lenders Ordinance. 

===== PAGE 64 =====

61 
 
 
Personnel and training 
52. Appropriate personnel recruitment and training policies should be 
established with adequ ate consideration given to training needs to 
ensure compliance with the licensee’s operational and internal control 
policies and procedures and all applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements to which the licensee is subject. In particular:- 
(a) Licensees sho uld ensure that, for compliance with the MLO 
and the licensing conditions, adequate training suitable for the 
specific duties which their staff perform is provided to these 
persons both before they commence their duties and on an 
ongoing basis. Their staff  should be made aware of how the 
licensing conditions apply to their duties, the licensee’s 
statutory obligations and the possible consequences for failure 
to comply with the licensing conditions or statutory 
requirements. 
(b) Managerial staff should have spec ific training on their 
responsibilities for supervising or managing staff, agents, 
appointed third parties and other persons acting for the licensee 
and performing random checks in the daily operations of the 
licensee to ensure compliance with the licensing conditions and 
relevant statutory provisions. 
53. Licensees should also take appropriate steps to ensure that their 
agents, appointed third parties and other persons acting for them are 
aware of how the licensing conditions apply to their duties, the 
licensee’s statutory obligations and the possible consequences for 
failure to comply with the licensing conditions or statutory 
requirements before they commence their duties. 
54. Licensees are encouraged to consider using a mix of training 
techniques and tools in delivering training, depending on the available 
resources and learning needs of their staff, agents, appointed third 
parties and other persons acting for them.  These  techniques  and 
tools may include on -line learning systems, focused classroom 
training, vi deos as well as paper -based or intranet -based procedural 
manuals. 

===== PAGE 65 =====

62 
 
 
Review of appointed third parties 
55. Licensees should from time to time ascertain the appointed third 
parties’ continuous compliance with the relevant requirements for the 
purposes of the lic ensees’ continuous compliance with the licensing 
conditions and the provisions of the MLO, in particular should ensure 
that the appointed third parties do not charge borrowers or intending 
borrowers any fees for or in relation to the loans granted by licensees. 
 
Record keeping 
56. Licensees should keep adequate and up -to-date documentation 
regarding the licensees’ compliance with licensing conditions and the 
statutory provisions of the MLO. 
57. In particular, licensees should maintain proper records as required 
under the various licensing conditions including but not limited to: 
(a) Particulars of their appointed third parties; 
(b) Appointed third parties’ written confirmations on not charging 
borrowers or intending borrowers any fees for or in relation to 
loans granted by licensees; 
(c) Written confirmations from any party from which personal data 
is obtained or collected that the disclosure / provision of such 
personal data is not in contravention of the provisions of the 
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance; 
(d) Records which show t he licensees’ compliance with the 
requirement on providing explanations to intending borrowers 
of the terms of the loan agreements; 
(e) Written confirmations or approvals by the relevant authorities 
produced by borrowers for loan agreements involving the 
acceptance of subsidized flats as collateral. 

===== PAGE 66 =====

63 
 
Annex 1 – Sample form on disclosure of the existence of third 
parties by intending borrowers 
 
 
 
Confirmation from [ ] (intending borrower) 
To: (Name of licensee) 
I / We, (Name of the intending borrower ), holder of  [Hong Kong 
Identity Card No.  ] / [BR Certificate No.  ] / 
[Company Number   ] * at ( address) refer to my / our 
application to you for a loan and hereby confirm that: 
 
(1) I / We 
* [ have entered into or signed an agreement with a third party] 
* [ have not entered into or signed any agreement with any third 
party] 
for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or 
application of the loan, guaranteeing or securing the repayment of 
the loan (other than any agreement with solicitors instructed by 
me / us for the provision of legal services solely); 
 
(2) The name and address of the third party are as follows: 
 
Name of third party 1:   
 
Address of third party 1 :   
 
 
Name of third party 2:   
 
Address of third party 2 :   
 
 
(Please set out particulars of ot her third parties on a separate sheet 
signed by the intending borrower bearing the same date if there are 
more than two third parties) 

===== PAGE 67 =====

64 
 
 
 
 
 
I / We hereby provide a copy of each of the agreement with the thir d 
party or parties and understand that such agreement(s) will be attached  
to the loan agreement. 
 
 
Signature
: 
 
Name: 
 
Date: 
 
 
*Delete where appropriate 

===== PAGE 68 =====

65 
 
 
Annex 2 – Sample form on confirmation by appointed third 
party on the charging of fees 
 
 
 
Confirmation from appointed third party 
To: (Name of licensee) 
I / We  (Name of appointed third party) refer to the application   
of (Name of intending borrower) (“the intending borrower”) for a 
loan from you and hereby confirm that: 
 
(a) I / We have not charged, recovered, demanded or received 
and will not charge, recover, demand or receive any fees, 
charges, reward or consideration, however named, from 
the intending borrower for or relating to the procuring, 
negotiation, obtaining or application of the loan or 
guaranteeing or securing the repayment of the loan; and 
 
(b) I / We have not otherwise agreed with the intending 
borrower that, for or relating to the loan, the intending 
borrower pay or would pay any fees, charges, reward or 
consideration, however named, to any other party whether 
for the purchase of any goods or services or not. 
 
 
Signature: 
Name: 
Date: 

===== PAGE 69 =====

66 
 
 
Annex 3 – Sample form on reporting by licensees of particulars 
or changes in particulars of or termination of 
appointment of appointed third parties of licensees 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Forms 
(1) Form ML – ATP-1 
 
Notice of Particulars of Third Party Appointed by 
Licensed Money Lenders in relation to Granting of 
Loans 
(2) Form ML – ATP-2 
 
Notice of Changes in Particulars of Appointed Third 
Party of Licensed Money Lenders 
(3) Form ML – ATP-3 
 
Notice of Termination of Appointment of Appointed 
Third Party of Licensed Money Lenders 

===== PAGE 70 =====

67 
 
Form ML- ATP-1 
 
持牌放債人為批出貸款而委任的第三方詳情通知書 
Notice of Particulars of Third Party Appointed by 
Licensed Money Lenders in relation to Granting of Loans 
 
放債人檔案號碼 MLR Number 
1 持牌人姓名／  名稱  Name of Money Lender Licensee 
 
 
2 持牌人提供 的 電 話 查詢號 碼 Licensee’s Enquiry Telephone Number 
 
 
3 持 牌 人 委 任 的 第 三 方 的 詳情  
Particulars of the third party appointed by the Licensee 
姓名／ 名稱 Name 
地 址 Address 
 
身分證明 Identification 
(A) 適用於個人  For Individual 
(香港身分證／護照副本必須連同本表格一併交付 A copy of Hong Kong Identity Card / Passport must be 
delivered with this Form) 
 
 
(i) 香港身分證號碼  Hong Kong Identity Card Number 
OR 
 
 
(ii) 護照簽發國家及號碼   
Passport Issuing Country and Number 

===== PAGE 71 =====

68 
 
(B) 適 用 於 獨 資 、 合 夥 或 其 他 非 法 人 團 體 
For Sole-proprietorship, Partnership and unincorporated body of persons 
 
 
商業登記證號碼 Business Registration Certificate Number 
 
 
(C) ) 適 用 於 法 人 團 體 For Body Corporate 
 
公司編號 Company Number 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
簽署 Signed : 
姓名 Name : 日期 Date: 
 
 
持牌放債人 Money Lender Licensee／ 
持牌放債人的授權代表 Authorised Person of Licensee* 
 
 
 
 
日 DD / 月 MM / 年 YYYY 
 
*請刪去不適用者 Delete whichever does not apply 
 
 
 
 
提交人資料 Presentor’s Reference 
 
姓 名 Name : 
 
電話 Telephone : 
 
傳 真 Fax No. : 

===== PAGE 72 =====

69 
 
Form ML- ATP-2 
 
持牌放債人委任的第三方的詳情更改通知書 
Notice of Changes in Particulars of Appointed Third Party 
of Licensed Money Lenders 
 
放債人檔案號碼 MLR Number 
1 持牌人姓名／  名稱  Name of Money Lender Licensee 
 
 
2 持牌人提供的 電 話 查 詢 號碼 Licensee’s Enquiry Telephone Number 
 
 
3 持 牌 人 委 任 的 第 三 方 的 詳 情 更 改 
Changes in Particulars of the Appointed Third Party of the Licensee 
A. 現 時 在 放 債 人 登 記 冊 登 記 的 詳 情 
Particulars Currently Registered in the Register of Money Lenders 
姓名／ 名稱 Name 
地址 Address 
 
 
身分證明 Identification 
(a) ) 適 用 於 個 人 For Individual 
(i) 香港身分證號碼  Hong Kong Identity Card Number 
OR 
 
(ii) 護照簽發國家及號碼   
Passport Issuing Country and Number 
 
(b) 適 用 於 獨 資 、 合 夥或其他非法人團 體 
For Sole-proprietorship, Partnership and unincorporated body of persons  
 
商業登記證號碼 Business Registration Certificate Number 

===== PAGE 73 =====

70 
 
(c) ) 適 用 於 法 人 團 體 For Body Corporate 
 
公司編號 Company Number 
 
 
 
B. 更 改 詳 情 Details of Change(s) 
只須填報有更改的項目 Please complete item(s) with change(s) only 
 
 
姓名／ 名稱 Name 
地址 Address 
 
 
身分證明 Identification 
(a) ) 適 用 於 個 人 For Individual 
(i) 香港身分證號碼  Hong Kong Identity Card Number 
OR 
 
(ii) 護照簽發國家及號碼   
Passport Issuing Country and Number 
 
(b) 適 用 於 獨 資 、 合 夥 或 其 他 非 法 人 團 體 
For Sole-proprietorship, Partnership and unincorporated body of persons 
 
商業登記證號碼 Business Registration Certificate Number 
 
(c) ) 適 用 於 法 人 團 體 For Body Corporate 
 
公司編號 Company Number 
 
 
 
 
簽署 Signed : 
姓 名 Name : 日期 Date: 
 
 
持牌放債人 Money Lender Licensee／ 
持牌放債人的授權代表 Authorised Person of Licensee* 
*請刪去不適用者 Delete whichever does not apply 
 
 
 
 
 
日 DD / 月 MM / 年 YYYY 
 
 
提交人資料 Presentor’s Reference 
姓 名 Name : 
電話 Telephone : 
傳 真 Fax No. : 

===== PAGE 74 =====

71 
 
Form ML- ATP-3 
 
持牌放債人委任的第三方的終止委任通知書 
Notice of Termination of Appointment of 
Appointed Third Party of Licensed Money Lenders 
 
放債人檔案號碼 MLR Number 
 
1 持牌人姓名／  名稱  Name of Money Lender Licensee 
2 持牌人提供的 電 話 查 詢 號碼 Licensee’s Enquiry Telephone Number 
 
3 現通知放 債 人 註 冊 處 處 長 ， 下 述人 士已 於   年   月  日 停 任上述 持
牌人為批出 貸 款 而 委任的第三 方 。 
I / We * hereby notify the Registrar of Money Lenders that the following person has 
ceased to be the appointed third party of the abovenamed Money Lender Licensee in 
relation to the granting of loans with effect from the date of  . 
 
4 停 任 持 牌 人 委 任 的 第 三 方 的 人 士 的 詳 情 
Particulars of the person who ceased to be the appointed third party of the Licensee 
姓名／ 名稱 Name 
地 址 Address 
 
身分證明 Identification 
(A) ) 適 用 於 個 人 For Individual 
(i) 香 港 身 分 證 號 碼 Hong Kong Identity Card Number 
OR 
 
(ii) 護照簽發國家及號碼   
Passport Issuing Country and Number 

===== PAGE 75 =====

72 
 
(B) 適 用 於 獨 資 、 合 夥 或 其 他 非 法 人 團 體 
For Sole-proprietorship, Partnership and unincorporated body of persons 
 
商業登記證號碼 Business Registration Certificate Number 
 
 
(C) ) 適 用 於 法 人 團 體 For Body Corporate 
公司編號 Company Number 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
簽署 Signed : 
姓名 Name : 日期 Date: 
 
 
持牌放債人 Money Lender Licensee／ 
持牌放債人的授權代表Authorised Person of Licensee* 
*請刪去不適用者 Delete whichever does not apply 
 
 
 
 
日 DD / 月 MM / 年 YYYY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
提交人資料 Presentor’s Reference 
 
姓 名 Name : 
 
電話 Telephone : 
 
傳 真 Fax No. : 

===== PAGE 76 =====

73 
 
Annex 4 – Guidance for meeting the requirements on the display / 
broadcast of risk warning statement for different types of 
advertisements 
 
 
Form of advertisement Manner of display / broadcast accepted 
as meeting the requirements 
Audio advertisement with no 
visual display (e.g. Radio 
broadcast) 
 The warning statement sho uld be 
audibly and clearly read out in a 
voice-over at the end of each 
broadcast. 
 The warning statement should be 
read out in the same pace as other 
contents of the advertisement. 
Audio-visual advertisement 
(including television, cinema 
or video clips on internet) 
 Where the warning statement 
appears in an independent 
screenshot, the statement should 
be displayed visually for at least 3 
seconds together with a clear 
read-out for the same duration. 
OR 
The warning statement should be 
shown clearly at the bottom of the 
screen throughout the entire 
advertisement with the height of 
each Chinese character of the 
statement be at least 1/15 of the 
screen and / or height of the 
capital letters of the English 
statement be at least 1/20 of the 
screen, together with a c lear read-
out in the same pace as other 
contents of the advertisement. 
 The warning statement should be 
displayed in darker colour than 
the background and there should 

===== PAGE 77 =====

74 
 
Form of advertisement Manner of display / broadcast accepted 
as meeting the requirements 
 be clear contrast in colour 
between the background or 
backdrop of the advertisement and 
the warning statement. 
Advertisement in print  The warning statement should be 
displayed in text in at least 50 per 
cent of the font size, same font 
type and colour  as the other 
contents of the advertisement that 
bear the largest font size. 
Internet advertisement  For a website banner which links 
to another website, it is acceptable 
for the warning statement to be 
shown on the landing page instead 
of in the banner. The warning 
statement should be displayed in 
text in at least 50 per cent of the 
font size, same font type and 
colour as the other contents that 
bear the largest font size on the 
landing page. 
 For advertisements with a static 
screen on the internet, the 
guidance above for advertisement 
in print applies. 
 For audio-visual advertisement on 
the internet, the guidance above 
for the display of warning 
statement in audio -visual 
advertisements applies. 
SMS advertising message on 
mobile phones 
 The warning statement should be 
displayed as an independent 
paragraph in the SMS message. 
 

===== PAGE 78 =====

75 
 
Form of advertisement Manner of display / broadcast accepted 
as meeting the requirements 
  Where the SMS message links to 
another advertising website, it is 
acceptable for the warning 
statement to be shown on the 
landing page instead of in the 
SMS message. In that case, the 
warning statement should be 
displayed in text in at least 50 per 
cent of the font size, same font 
type and colour as the other 
contents that bear the largest font 
size on the landing page. 

===== PAGE 79 =====

76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1(c): 
Money Lenders Licence – Licensing Conditions 

===== PAGE 80 =====

77 
 
The licensing conditions for money lenders licences granted or renewed after 1 December 2016. 
 
MONEY LENDERS LICENCE 
LICENSING CONDITIONS 
 
1. Before entering into any agreement for loan, the money lender 
 
(a) shall ask the intending borrower to state whether or not he has entered into or signed any 
agreement (“the third party agreement”) with any person (“third party”) for or in relation to the 
procuring, negotiati on, obtaining or application of the loan, guaranteeing or securing the 
repayment of the loan (other than an agreement with solicitors instructed by the intending 
borrower for the provision of legal services solely); 
(b) shall state in writing the intending bor rower’s reply in relation to Condition 1(a) above in the loan 
agreement; and 
(c) if the intending borrower’s reply in relation to Condition 1(a) above is in the affirmative, shall 
further 
(i) obtain from the intending borrower the name and address of the third party; 
(ii) state in writing in the loan agreement the name and address of the third party and  whether 
the money lender is in any way related to the third party and the nature of  such relationship; 
(iii) ask the intending borrower to personally provide a copy of the third party agreement; and 
(iv) attach the third party agreement to the loan agreement. 
 
2. The money lender shall not grant or agree to grant any loan to any intending borrower if the  intending 
borrower’s reply in relation to Condition 1(a) above is in the affirmati ve, unless the  third party as 
identified in Condition 1(c) above: 
 
(a) is a person appointed by the money lender (“appointed third party”) for or in relation to  granting a 
loan to any intending borrower or any specified class of intending borrower,  whether as to the 
procuring, negotiation, obtaining, application, guaranteeing or securing  the repayment of such a 
loan; and 
(b) has, specifically in respect of the loan, confirmed in writing to the money lender that  
(i) he has not charged, recovered, demanded or received a nd will not charge, recover, demand 
or receive any fees, charges, reward or consideration, however named, from  such intending 
borrower for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or  application of the loan 
or guaranteeing or securing the repayment of the loan; and 
(ii) he has not otherwise agreed with the intending borrower that the intending borrower  pays 
or would pay any fees, charges, reward or consideration, however named, to  any other 
party whether for the purchase of any goods or services or not. 
 
3. For the purposes of Condition 2, 
 
(a) the money lender shall provide in writing to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of  Police and the 
Registrar of Money Lenders the name, address and identification number  (including identification 
card/passport, business registration and company number as  applicable) of any appointed third party; 
and 
(b) the third party as identified in Condition 1(c) above is not considered as an appointed  third party until 
after the name and address of the appointed third party appear  on the Register kept by the Registrar 
of Money Lenders. 
 
4. (a) The money lender shall not knowingly allow or permit any person, whether the money  lender, or his 
partner, employer, employee, principal or agent or any person acting for him or any appointed third party, 
to charge, recover, demand or receive any fees, charges,  reward or consideration, however named, from 

===== PAGE 81 =====

78 
 
any borrower or intending borrower for or  in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or 
application of a loan or guaranteeing or securing the repayment of a loan. 
 
(b) The prohibition in Condition 4(a) above also covers any fees, charges, reward or  consideration, 
however named, to be paid by the borrower or intending borrower to the  appointed third party or any 
other person as agreed be tween the borrower/intending  borrower and the appointed third party, 
whether for the purchase of any goods or services or not. 
 
5. Before entering into any agreement for loan, the money lender must give explanation to the  intending 
borrower of all the terms of the agreement, in particular the terms in relation to repayment, namely, 
 
(a) the interest rate expressed as a rate per cent per annum and the total amount of interest  payable 
under the agreement; 
(b) amounts of repayments, periodically and in total, under the agreement; 
(c) the possible consequences for any default in repayment, including – 
(i) the taking into possession and sale of any security involved (including the property  charged, if 
any); and 
(ii) any overriding right of the money lender to demand an immediate repayment. 
 
The money lender must also keep written or video or audio records which show that he  complies with 
the requirements under this condition.  
 
6. The money lender shall not obtain or collect personal data of any person from another person  or use such 
personal data obtained or collected from another person for the purpose of or in  relation to the money 
lender’s business (a) without the written confirmation from that other  person that the 
disclosure/provision of such personal data by that other person for such  use of the money lender is not in 
contravention of the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap. 486; or (b) when the money 
lender has knowledge, or has reasonable  grounds to believe, that the disclosure/provision of the personal 
data by t hat other person for  such use of the money lender is likely to be in contravention of the 
provisions of the Personal  Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap. 486. The money lender must also keep records 
which show  that he complies with this requirement and the provi sions of the Personal Data (Privacy)  
Ordinance. 
 
7. The money lender shall not accept a subsidized flat provided by the Hong Kong Housing  Authority as 
collateral for the loan to the borrower unless the borrower has produced to the money lender either– 
 
(a) a writ ten confirmation from the Hong Kong Housing Authority that the necessary  premium for 
removing the restrictions on alienation on the said flat has been fully paid; or 
(b) the written approval of the Director of Housing granting approval to mortgage or charge the said flat. 
 
8. The Chinese version of any advertisement issued or published by the money lender for the  purpose of the 
money lender’s business as a money lender must clearly show the Chinese  characters “放債人牌照號碼” 
immediately followed by the number of the money lender’s licence. 
 
9. Any advertisement in relation to the money lending business of a money lender issued or published by the 
money lender, in his own name or through any other person, whether in  textual, audio or visual form, 
must contain the money lender’s telephone hotline for handling  complaints and a risk warning statement 
(in the same language as that of the advertisement or  the relevant part thereof) as set out below, both of 
which must be promin ent and easily legible  in the written or visual part of the advertisement. The risk 
warning statement must also be clearly audible in the audio part of the advertisement: 
 

===== PAGE 82 =====

79 
 
- “忠告: 借錢梗要還，咪俾錢中介” 
- “Warning: You have to repay your loans. Don’t pay any intermediaries.” 
 
10. (a) The money lender and his debt collectors shall not try to recover debts, whether directly  or indirectly, 
from anyone unless such person is in law indebted to him. 
 
(b) The money lender shall take all practicable steps and measures to ensure that personal  data collected 
in the course of his business are protected against unauthorized or  accidental access, processing, erasure 
or other use by any debt collectors, and  shall at all  times comply with the Personal Data (Privacy) 
Ordinance, Cap 486, Laws of Hong Kong, in the collection, use, holding and processing of such information 
or personal data. 
 
(c) The money lender and his debt collectors shall not, while trying to  locate the whereabouts of debtors, 
harass anyone, adopt unlawful or improper debt collection practices.  
 
(d) The money lender shall, so far as reasonably practicable, maintain and monitor proper  systems and 
procedures for handling complaints and/or inqui ries relating to the loans lent  by him in the ordinary 
course of business and the debt collection activities arising therefrom. 
 
(e) The money lender shall, so far as reasonably practicable, keep updated and accurate  records of the 
debt collection activities of his debt collectors during the term of the licence. 
 
11. The money lender shall provide information relating to his money lending business during the  term of the 
licence as may be required by the Registrar of Money Lenders or the  Commissioner of Police a nd such 
information shall be provided within such time as the  Registrar of Money Lenders or the Commissioner of 
Police may specify. 
 
12. The money lender must establish and maintain proper systems and procedures to ensure that  the money 
lender, or his partners , employers, employees, principals or agents, any persons  acting for him and any 
appointed third parties shall be informed of and observe the licensing  conditions and the provisions of the 
Money Lenders Ordinance. 
 

===== PAGE 83 =====

80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1(d): 
Sample form on dis closure of the existing of third 
parties by intending borrower 

===== PAGE 84 =====

81 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclosure of the existence of third parties by intending borrower 
 
Confirmation from [                ] (intending borrower) 
 
To: (Name of licensee) 
 
I / We , ( Name of the intending borro wer), holder of [Hong Kong Identity 
Card No.   ] / [BR Certificate No.     ] / 
[Company Number      ] * at (address) refer to my 
/ our application to you for a loan and hereby confirm that: 
 
(1) I / We    
*  [ have entered into or signed an agreement with a third party] 
*  [ have not entered into or signed any agreement with any third party] 
for or in relation to the procuring, negotiation, obtaining or application 
of the loan, guaranteeing or securing the repayment of the loan (other 
than any agreement with so licitors instructed by me / us for the 
provision of legal services solely); 
 
(2) The name and address of the third party are as follows: 
 
Name of third party 1:         
 
Address of third party 1 :        
             
 
Name of third party 2:          
 
Address of third party 2 :        
             
(Please set out particulars of other third parties on a separate sheet signed 
by the intending borrower bearing the same date if there are more than 
two third parties) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Licensing Condition 1(b) 
Sample form on disclosure of 
the existence of third parties by intending borrower 

===== PAGE 85 =====

82 
 
I / We hereby provide a copy  of each of the agreement with the third party or 
parties and understand that such agreement (s) will be attach ed to the loan 
agreement. 
 
 
IMPORTANT NOTE:  
 
Please note that it is an offence for a person to fraudulently induce a money 
lender to lend money by false or mi sleading statement or dishonest 
concealment of material facts.  
 
You should make full and honest disclosure of the above  information on the 
involvement of any third parties in relation to the loan for the protection of 
your own interests. 
 
 
Signature: 
 
Name: 
 
Date:  
 
 
 
*Delete where appropriate 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 86 =====

83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1(e): 
Sample form on recording the particulars of 
appointed third party involved in a loan 
agreement 

===== PAGE 87 =====

84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Particulars of appointed third party involved in a loan agreement 
 
I / We (Name of Money Lender) confirm that : 
Please tick the relevant box 
 The following third party is involved in the loan agreement 
 
 
Name of third party :  
 
  
 
 
 Address of third party :  
 
   
 
   
 
    
  I / We have appointed the above third party.  
   
  I am / We are related to the appointed third party  
   
   Nature of my / our relationship with the appointed third party :  
  (Please select at least one item below)  
     
   Holding company of the Money Lender  
     
   Subsidiary of the Money Lender  
     
   Fellow subsidiary (i.e. subsidiary of the holding company of the Money Lender)  
        Others : (please specify)  
          
     
           
Signature :  
Name :  
Position :  
Name of  
Money Lender : 
 
Date :  
(Please record particulars of each appointed third party on a separate sheet.) 
Licensing Condition 1(c)(ii) 
Sample form on recording the particulars of 
appointed third party involved in a loan agreement 

===== PAGE 88 =====

85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1(f): 
Sample form for recording explanation of terms of 
loan agreement given to intending borrower 

===== PAGE 89 =====

86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmation of explanation of loan agreement by money lender 
 
I confirm that I have explained to the intending borrower at the time and place set out below all the terms of 
the following loan agreement, in particular the terms in relation to repayment, namely, 
(a) the interest rate expressed as a rate per cent per annum and the total amount of interest payable 
under the agreement; 
(b) amounts of repayments, periodically and in total, under the agreement;  
(c) the possible consequences for any default in repayment, including – 
(i) the taking into possession and sale of any security involved (including the property charged, 
if any); and 
(ii) any overriding right of the money lender to demand an immediate repayment. 
 
Loan agreement / 
Contract no. /  
Reference No. 
 
Name of Intending 
Borrower 
 
Date of explanation  
Time  
Venue  
 
Signature of staff :  
Name of staff :  
Position of staff :   
Name of Money Lender :  
 
Acknowledged by intending borrower 
Signature :  
Name of Intending 
Borrower :  
Date :  
 
Licensing Condition 5 
Sample form for recording explanation of terms 
of loan agreement given to intending borrower 
 