

===== PAGE 1 =====

Money Lenders Ordinance
(Cap. 163)
Contents
Section Page
Part I
Preliminary
1. Short title and application 1-2
2. Interpretation 1-2
3. Ordinance not to apply to authorized 
institutions
1-8
4. Registrar of Money Lenders and supervisory 
functions of Registrar
1-8
5. Official secrecy 1-10
6. Inspection of register 1-12
6A. Documents admissible in evidence 1-14
Part II
Licensing of Money Lenders
7. Restriction on carrying on of business of 
money lender
2-2
8. Application for licence and public notification 
of application
2-2
9. Investigation and lodgement of applications 2-2
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
T-2
Cap. 163

===== PAGE 2 =====

10. Licensing court 2-6
Section Page
10A. (Repealed) 2-6
10B. Powers of licensing court 2-6
10C. Immunity 2-8
11. Determination of application for licence 2-8
12. Effect and duration of licence 2-12
13. Renewal 2-14
14. Revocation and suspension 2-14
15. Transfer of licence and addition or 
substitution of new premises
2-16
16. Appeals 2-22
17. Duty to notify changes of particulars 2-22
Part III
Money Lenders’ Transactions
18. Form of agreement 3-2
19. Duty of money lender to give information to 
borrower
3-4
20. Duty of money lender to give information to 
surety
3-8
21. Early payment by borrower 3-10
22. Illegal agreements 3-12
23. Loan etc. not recoverable unless money 
lender licensed
3-14
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
T-4
Cap. 163

===== PAGE 3 =====

Section Page
Part IV
Excessive Interest Rates
24. Prohibition of excessive interest rates 4-2
25. Reopening of certain transactions 4-4
Part V
General
26. Restriction on money-lending advertisements 5-2
27. Charges for expenses etc. not recoverable 5-4
28. Power of Registrar and police to enter 
premises and inspect books, etc.
5-6
29. Offences by money lenders 5-8
30. Offences of fraudulent inducement and 
obstruction
5-14
30A. Offences relating to licensing court 5-14
31. Liability for offences by companies 5-16
32. Penalties and disqualification 5-16
32A. Time limitation for instituting certain 
proceedings
5-18
33. Burden of proof 5-18
33A. General exemptions 5-18
33B. Specific exemptions 5-22
33C. Legislative Council may amend Schedule 1 5-24
34. Regulations 5-24
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
T-6
Cap. 163

===== PAGE 4 =====

Section Page
35. Saving 5-26
36. Existing loans 5-26
Schedule 1 S1-2
Schedule 2 Calculation of True Annual 
Percentage Rate of Interest
S2-2
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
T-8
Cap. 163

===== PAGE 5 =====

To provide for the control and regulation of money lenders and money-
lending transactions, the appointment of a Registrar of Money 
Lenders and the licensing of persons carrying on business as 
money lenders; to provide protection and relief against excessive 
interest rates and extortionate stipulations in respect of loans; to 
provide for offences and for matters connected with or incidental 
to the foregoing; and to repeal the Money-lenders Ordinance 1911. 
[12 December 1980] L.N. 347 of 1980
(Format changes—E.R. 3 of 2018)
Part I
Preliminary
1. Short title and application
 (1) This Ordinance may be cited as the Money Lenders 
Ordinance. 
 (2) This Ordinance shall have effect notwithstanding any 
agreement to the contrary.
2. Interpretation
 (1) In this Ordinance, unless the context otherwise requires—
company (公司) means a body corporate—
 (a) incorporated under the Companies Ordinance 
(Cap. 622); (Amended 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part I 1-2
Section 1 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 6 =====

 (ab) incorporated under a former Companies Ordinance as 
defined by section 2(1) of the Companies Ordinance 
(Cap. 622); (Added 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
 (b) incorporated by any other Ordinance; or 
 (c) incorporated or established outside Hong Kong; (Added 
69 of 1988 s. 2)
disqualified person (被取消資格的人) means a person in respect 
of whom there is in force an order made by a court under 
section 32(2); 
effective rate (實際利率), in relation to interest, means the true 
annual percentage rate of interest calculated in accordance 
with Schedule 2; (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 2)
firm (商號) means an unincorporate body of 2 or more individuals, 
or 1 or more individuals and 1 or more companies, or 2 or 
more companies, who have entered into partnership with 
one another with a view to carrying on business for profit; 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 2)
interest (利、利息) does not include any sum lawfully agreed 
to be paid in accordance with this Ordinance on account 
of stamp duty or other similar duty, but save as aforesaid 
includes any amount (by whatever name called) in excess 
of the principal, which amount has been or is to be paid or 
payable in consideration of or otherwise in respect of a loan; 
licence (牌照) means a money lender’s licence granted under 
section 11 or renewed under section 13, and licensed  (領有
牌照) and licensee (持牌人) have corresponding meanings; 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 2)
licensing court (牌照法庭) means a magistrate sitting alone; 
(Replaced 13 of 1995 s. 37)
loan (貸款) includes advance, discount, money paid for or on 
account of or on behalf of or at the request of any person, 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part I 1-4
Section 2 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 7 =====

or the forbearance to require payment of money owing on 
any account whatsoever, and every agreement (whatever its 
terms or form may be) which is in substance or effect a loan 
of money, and also an agreement to secure the repayment of 
any such loan, and lend (貸出) and lender (貸款人) shall be 
construed accordingly; 
money lender (放債人) means every person whose business 
(whether or not he carries on any other business) is that of 
making loans or who advertises or announces himself or 
holds himself out in any way as carrying on that business, but 
does not include—
 (a) a person specified in Part 1 of Schedule 1; or 
 (b) as respects a loan specified in Part 2 of Schedule 1, any 
person who makes such loan; (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 2)
prescribed (訂明) means prescribed by regulations made under 
section 34; 
principal (本金), in relation to a loan, means the amount actually 
lent; 
register (登記冊) means the register kept by the Registrar under 
section 4; 
Registrar (註冊處處長) means the Registrar of Money Lenders 
appointed under section 4; 
subsidiary (附屬公司) has the meaning given by section 15 of 
the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) for the purposes of 
that Ordinance. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 2. Amended 28 of 2012 
ss. 912 & 920)
 (2) For the purposes of this Ordinance, where by an agreement 
for the loan of money the interest charged on the loan is not 
expressed in terms of a rate, any amount paid or payable to 
the lender under the agreement (other than simple interest 
charged in accordance with the proviso to section 22) shall 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part I 1-6
Section 2 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 8 =====

be appropriated to principal and interest in the proportion that 
the total amount of principal bears to the total amount of the 
interest, and the rate per cent per annum represented by the 
interest charged as calculated in accordance with Schedule 2 
shall be deemed to be the rate of interest charged on the loan. 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 2)
 (3) For the purpose of determining the amount of the principal of 
a loan, any amount thereof which is not shown to have been 
lent except for the purpose of treating it as an instalment paid 
by the borrower in repayment of the loan and which is so 
treated by the lender shall be disregarded. 
 (4) (Repealed 13 of 1995 s. 37)
3. Ordinance not to apply to authorized institutions
This Ordinance shall not apply to—
 (a) an authorized institution within the meaning of the 
Banking Ordinance (Cap. 155); or 
 (b) as respects a loan made to such an authorized institution, 
any person who makes such loan. 
(Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 3)
4. Registrar of Money Lenders and supervisory functions of 
Registrar
 (1) The Chief Executive shall appoint a public officer to be the 
Registrar of Money Lenders. (Amended 23 of 1999 s. 3)
 (2) The Registrar shall establish and maintain a register in which 
he shall cause to be kept particulars, other than specified 
particulars, of—
 (a) applications for the grant or renewal of licences; 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 4)
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part I 1-8
Section 3 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 9 =====

 (b) licences which are in force or have been revoked or 
suspended; 
 (c) such other matters, if any, as he thinks fit. 
 (3) In this section specified particulars (指明詳情) means 
particulars furnished under section 8 which are specified in 
regulations made under section 34 as particulars which shall 
not be entered in the register.
5. Official secrecy
 (1) Except as may be necessary for the exercise or performance 
of any function or duty under this Ordinance or for carrying 
into effect the provisions of this Ordinance, the Registrar and 
every person employed in carrying out or in assisting any 
person to carry out the provisions of this Ordinance—
 (a) shall preserve and aid in preserving secrecy with 
regard to all matters relating to the affairs of any 
person that may come to his knowledge in the exercise 
or performance of any function or duty under this 
Ordinance; 
 (b) shall not communicate any such matter to any person 
other than the person to whom such matter relates; and 
 (c) shall not suffer or permit any person to have access to 
any records in the possession, custody or control of any 
person to whom this subsection applies. 
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply—
 (a) to the disclosure of information in the form of a 
summary of similar information provided by a number 
of persons if the summary is so framed as to prevent 
particulars relating to the business of any particular 
person being ascertained from it; 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part I 1-10
Section 5 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 10 =====

 (b) to the disclosure of information with a view to the 
institution of, or otherwise for the purposes of, any 
criminal proceedings; (Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 5)
 (c) in connection with any civil proceedings arising out of, 
or relating to, section 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 33, 33B or 36; 
or (Added 69 of 1988 s. 5)
 (d) to the disclosure of information to the Financial 
Secretary, or any public officer authorized by the 
Financial Secretary for the purposes of this paragraph 
where, in the opinion of the Registrar, it is desirable or 
expedient that information should be disclosed in the 
public interest. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 5. Amended L.N. 96 
of 1993; L.N. 106 of 2002)
 (3) Any person who—
 (a) contravenes subsection (1); or 
 (b) aids, abets, counsels or procures any person to 
contravene subsection (1), 
commits an offence and shall be liable to a fine at level 6 and 
to imprisonment for 2 years. (Amended E.R. 4 of 2021)
6. Inspection of register
 (1) Any person shall be entitled on payment of the prescribed 
fee—
 (a) to inspect the register during ordinary office hours and 
take copies of any entry; or 
 (b) to obtain from the Registrar a copy, certified by or under 
the authority of the Registrar to be correct, of any entry 
in the register. 
 (2) The Registrar shall give public notice, in such manner as 
he may deem fit, of the place where and the times when the 
register may be inspected.
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part I 1-12
Section 6 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 11 =====

6A. Documents admissible in evidence
A document purporting to be a copy, certified by or under the 
authority of the Registrar to be true and correct, of any entry in 
the register shall be admissible in evidence in criminal or civil 
proceedings before any court on its production without further 
proof and, until the contrary is proved, the court shall presume 
that—
 (a) the signature and certification to the document is that 
of the Registrar or a person authorized by him in that 
behalf; and 
 (b) the document is a true and correct copy. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 6)
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part I 1-14
Section 6A Cap. 163

===== PAGE 12 =====

Part II
Licensing of Money Lenders
7. Restriction on carrying on of business of money lender
 (1) No person shall carry on business as a money lender—
 (a) without a licence; 
 (b) at any place other than the premises specified in such 
licence; or 
 (c) otherwise than in accordance with the conditions of a 
licence. 
 (2) A licence shall be in the prescribed form.
8. Application for licence and public notification of application
 (1) An application for a licence shall be made to the Registrar in 
the prescribed form and in the prescribed manner, and shall 
be accompanied by the prescribed fee and a statement in 
writing containing the prescribed particulars in respect of the 
application. 
 (2) An application made under this section in respect of a 
company may be made by any person authorized in that 
behalf by such company. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 7)
 (3) An application made under this section in respect of partners 
in a firm may be made by any such partner. 
 (4) The Registrar shall, in such manner as may be prescribed, 
give public notice of every application made under this 
section.
9. Investigation and lodgement of applications
 (1) Where an application is made under section 8, the applicant 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-2
Section 7 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 13 =====

shall at the same time send a copy of the application to the 
Commissioner of Police, and the Commissioner of Police 
may cause an investigation to be carried out in respect of the 
application for the purpose of determining whether, in the 
opinion of the Commissioner of Police, there are grounds for 
objecting to the application under section 11. 
 (2) For the purpose of carrying out an investigation under this 
section, the Commissioner of Police may in writing require 
the applicant to produce for inspection such books, records 
or documents or to furnish such information relating to the 
application or any business carried on or intended to be 
carried on by him as the Commissioner of Police may specify. 
 (3) In respect of an application made under section 8, no step 
other than the registration of such application shall be taken 
by the Registrar prior to—
 (a) the date on which a period of 60 days after the date on 
which the application is made expires; or 
 (b) the date on which the Commissioner of Police notifies 
the Registrar that any investigation carried out under this 
section in respect of the application has been completed, 
whichever is the earlier (in this section referred to as the 
material date). 
 (4) Where the Registrar or the Commissioner of Police intends 
to object under section 11 to any application for a licence, 
he shall, not later than 7 days after the material date, serve 
notice on the applicant of his intention to object and of the 
grounds of such objection; and where such notice is served 
by the Commissioner of Police, he shall send a copy thereof 
to the Registrar. 
 (5) Upon the expiration of a period of 7 days after the material 
date in respect of any application made under section 8, the 
Registrar shall lodge the application with such magistrate as 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-4
Section 9 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 14 =====

he deems fit, together with a copy of any notice served on the 
applicant under subsection (4). (Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 8)
 (6) The Registrar shall give notice to the Commissioner of Police 
of any lodgement made under subsection (5).
10. Licensing court
 (1) Where an application is lodged under section 9(5), the 
licensing court shall hear and determine the application in 
accordance with section 11. 
 (2)-(4) (Repealed 13 of 1995 s. 38) 
 (5) The Registrar shall be provided with a copy of each decision 
of the licensing court. 
(Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 9)
10A. (Repealed 13 of 1995 s. 39)
10B. Powers of licensing court
Subject to this Ordinance, the licensing court may determine its 
own procedure and in particular may—
 (a) receive and consider any material, whether by way 
of oral evidence, written statements, documents or 
otherwise, notwithstanding that such material would 
not be admissible in evidence in civil or criminal 
proceedings; 
 (b) by notice in writing signed by the presiding magistrate, 
require any person to attend before it at any hearing and 
to give evidence and produce documents; 
 (c) administer oaths and affirmations; 
 (d) examine on oath, affirmation or otherwise any person 
attending before it at any hearing and require such 
person to answer all questions put by or with its consent; 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-6
Section 10 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 15 =====

 (e) determine the manner in which the material referred to 
in paragraph (a) shall be received; and 
 (f) adjourn any hearing from time to time as it may deem 
fit, 
and may do all things—
 (i) ancillary to the powers conferred by this section; or 
 (ii) reasonably necessary for the discharge of its functions 
under this Ordinance. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 9)
10C. Immunity
Any—
 (a) member of the licensing court; and 
 (b) witness, party to any proceedings, representative or 
other person appearing before the licensing court, 
shall have the same privileges and immunities in any proceedings 
before the licensing court or in the exercise of the licensing court’s 
functions as he would have before a court in civil proceedings. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 9)
11. Determination of application for licence
 (1) The licensing court shall fix a date for the hearing of an 
application lodged under section 9(5) and shall give 14 clear 
days’ notice of such date to the applicant, the Registrar and 
the Commissioner of Police. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 10)
 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the licensing court shall grant a 
licence upon the hearing of an application lodged under 
section 9(5) except where—
 (a) the Registrar or the Commissioner of Police has served 
notice under section 9 of his intention to object to 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-8
Section 10C Cap. 163

===== PAGE 16 =====

the application and, at the hearing of the application, 
objection to the application is made by or on behalf of 
the Registrar or, as the case may be, the Commissioner 
of Police; or 
 (b) objection to the application is made by any other person 
appearing at the hearing in person or by counsel who—
 (i) has served notice of his intention to object and 
the grounds of such objection on the applicant, 
the Registrar and the Commissioner of Police and 
lodged a copy of such notice in the office of the 
licensing court, not later than 4 days prior to the 
date fixed for the hearing under subsection (1); or 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 10)
 (ii) is granted leave by the licensing court to make 
such objection, 
and for the purposes of this section counsel (大律師) means 
a person qualified to practise as a barrister or solicitor under 
the Legal Practitioners Ordinance (Cap. 159). 
 (3) The licensing court shall not grant a licence to a person who 
is a disqualified person. 
 (4) The licensing court shall, in considering an application to 
which subsection (2)(a) or (b) applies, hear any evidence 
given by the applicant or any witnesses called on his behalf 
and any evidence adduced by or on behalf of the Registrar or 
the Commissioner of Police or any other person who appears 
at the hearing under subsection (2)(b). 
 (5) Subject to subsection (3), the licensing court shall not grant a 
licence upon an application to which subsection (2)(a) or (b) 
applies unless the court is satisfied—
 (a) that the applicant, or in the case of a firm every partner 
thereof, is a fit and proper person to carry on business as 
a money lender; 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-10
Section 11 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 17 =====

 (b) in the case of a company, that any person who controls 
such company or in accordance with whose directions 
or instructions the directors thereof are accustomed to 
act is a fit and proper person to be associated with the 
business of money-lending; (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 10)
 (c) that as respects the carrying on of business as a money 
lender, any person responsible or proposed to be 
responsible for the management of the business or any 
part thereof, or in the case of a company any director 
or secretary or other officer thereof, is a fit and proper 
person to be associated with the business of money-
lending; (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 10)
 (d) that the name under which the applicant applies to be 
licensed is not misleading or otherwise undesirable; 
 (e) that as respects any of the premises to which the 
application relates, such premises and the situation 
thereof are suitable for the carrying on of the business 
of money-lending; 
 (f) that the applicant has complied with the provisions of 
this Part and any regulations relating to the application; 
and 
 (g) that in all the circumstances the grant of such licence is 
not contrary to the public interest. 
 (6) A licence granted under this section shall be subject to such 
conditions as the licensing court may impose. 
 (7) A licence granted under this section shall not be issued and 
shall not enter into force except on payment to the licensing 
court of the prescribed fee.
12. Effect and duration of licence
Every licence shall authorize the person named therein to carry on 
business as a money lender for a period of 12 months from—
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-12
Section 12 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 18 =====

 (a) in the case of a licence granted under section 11, the day 
on which it is so granted; and 
 (b) in the case of a licence renewed under section 13, 
irrespective of whether the renewal of the licence 
was made prior to, upon or after its expiration, and 
notwithstanding section 13(5), the day immediately 
following the day on which it would have, but for its 
renewal, or has, as the case may be, expired. 
(Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 11)
13. Renewal
 (1) A licensee may apply for the renewal of his licence within a 
period of 3 months prior to the expiration thereof. 
 (2) This section does not apply to a licensee whose licence is 
revoked. 
 (3) An application for renewal made under this section shall be 
made in the prescribed manner and shall be accompanied by 
the prescribed fee. 
 (4) Sections 8, 9, 10 and 11 shall apply to an application 
for renewal made under this section as they apply to an 
application made under section 8. 
 (5) Any licence in respect of which an application for renewal 
is made under this section and which expires prior to 
the determination of such application shall, unless such 
application is withdrawn, or the licence is revoked or 
suspended under section 14, be deemed to continue in force 
until the determination of such application.
14. Revocation and suspension
 (1) On the application of the Registrar or the Commissioner 
of Police, a licensing court may make an order revoking or 
suspending any licence granted by the licensing court if, in 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-14
Section 13 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 19 =====

the opinion of the licensing court— (Amended 69 of 1988 
s. 12; 13 of 1995 s. 40)
 (a) the licensee has ceased to be a fit and proper person to 
carry on business as a money lender; or 
 (b) the premises specified in the licence or any of such 
premises have, or the situation thereof has, ceased to be 
suitable for the carrying on of the business of money-
lending; or 
 (c) the licensee has been in serious breach of any condition 
of the licence or has ceased to satisfy any other 
condition relating to his business as a money lender in 
respect of which the licensing court is required to be 
satisfied under section 11(5); or 
 (d) the business of the licensee has been carried on at 
any time or on any occasion since the date on which 
the licence was granted by recourse to the use of any 
methods, or in any manner, contrary to the public 
interest. 
 (2) The licensing court shall fix a date for the hearing of an 
application under this section, and shall give 14 clear days’ 
notice of such date to the Registrar and the Commissioner of 
Police and the licensee; such notice shall call on the licensee 
to show cause as to why such application ought not to be 
granted and an order for the revocation or suspension of his 
licence ought not to be made. 
 (3) In this section licence (牌照) includes a licence deemed to 
continue in force under section 13(5).
15. Transfer of licence and addition or substitution of new premises
 (1) Except as provided in this section, a licence shall not be 
transferable. 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-16
Section 15 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 20 =====

 (2) Where a licensed money lender dies, the widow or widower 
or any member of the family of the deceased money lender 
of the age of 21 years or upwards, or any person on behalf of 
the family, may apply to the licensing court to have his or her 
name endorsed on the licence. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 13)
 (3) Where a licensee intends to carry on business as a money 
lender at any premises in addition to the premises specified in 
his licence, he may apply to the licensing court to have such 
additional premises endorsed on his licence. (Amended 69 of 
1988 s. 13)
 (4) Where a licensed money lender intends to transfer his 
business as a money lender from any premises specified in his 
licence to any premises not so specified, he may apply to the 
licensing court to have the premises to which he intends to 
transfer such business endorsed on his licence in substitution 
for such first-mentioned premises. (Amended 69 of 1988 
s. 13)
 (5) Every application under this section shall be made to the 
Registrar in the prescribed manner and accompanied by the 
prescribed fee and notice of the application shall be given to 
the Commissioner of Police. (Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 13)
 (6) The Registrar and the Commissioner of Police shall be 
entitled to appear and be heard at the hearing of any 
application under this section and to object to the granting of 
any such application. 
 (6A) Where the Registrar or the Commissioner of Police intends to 
object under subsection (6) to the granting of any application 
under this section, he shall, not later than one month after 
such application is made under subsection (5), serve notice 
on the applicant of his intention to object specifying the 
grounds of objection; and where such notice is served by the 
Commissioner of Police, he shall send a copy thereof to the 
Registrar. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 13)
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-18
Section 15 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 21 =====

 (6B) Upon the expiration of a period of one month after any 
application under this section is made under subsection (5), 
the Registrar shall lodge the application with such magistrate 
as he deems fit, together with a copy of any notice served on 
the applicant under subsection (6A). (Added 69 of 1988 s. 13)
 (7) The licensing court shall not grant an application under this 
section unless the court is satisfied that—
 (a) notice of the application has been given to the Registrar 
and the Commissioner of Police; 
 (b) in the case of an application under subsection (2), the 
applicant is a fit and proper person to carry on the 
business of the deceased money lender; 
 (c) in the case of an application under subsection (3), the 
additional premises and the situation thereof are suitable 
for the carrying on of the business of money-lending; 
 (d) in the case of an application under subsection (4), the 
premises to which the money lender intends to transfer 
his business and the situation thereof are suitable for the 
carrying on of the business of money-lending; 
 (e) in the case of an application in respect of any premises 
under subsection (3) or (4), any person responsible or 
proposed to be responsible for the management of the 
business carried on at such premises is a fit and proper 
person to be associated with the business of money-
lending. 
 (8) Where the licensing court grants an application for an 
endorsement under this section, the endorsement shall be 
made in the office of the licensing court upon payment of the 
prescribed fee. 
 (9) A licence endorsed under subsection (2) shall have effect in 
all respects as if the licence had been issued to the person 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-20
Section 15 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 22 =====

whose name is endorsed thereon and this Ordinance shall 
apply accordingly to such person as it applies to a licensee. 
 (10) (Repealed 13 of 1995 s. 41)
16. Appeals
Any person aggrieved by a decision of a licensing court under 
section 11, 13, 14 or 15 may appeal to the Court of First Instance 
and the decision of the Court of First Instance shall be final. 
(Amended 25 of 1998 s. 2)
17. Duty to notify changes of particulars
 (1) Where any change takes place in any particulars entered in 
the register in respect of any licensee (including any change 
of name by law), or a change takes place—
 (a) in the case of a firm, in the membership thereof whether 
by reason of an amalgamation or the reduction of the 
number of partners or otherwise; 
 (b) in the case of a company—
 (i) in the officers thereof; 
 (ii) in the control thereof by any person; 
 (iii) in the number of shares, or shares of a prescribed 
class, held by any person whereby the number of 
those shares exceeds the prescribed proportion of 
the number of issued shares or of the number of 
shares of that class (as the case may be); (Amended 
28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
 (c) in the persons responsible for the management of his 
business as a money lender at any premises where the 
business is carried on, 
the licensee shall give notice in writing of such change to 
the Registrar within 21 days after the change takes place and 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-22
Section 16 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 23 =====

the Registrar may in respect of any such change enter such 
particulars, or alter any particulars entered, in the register as 
he thinks fit. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 14)
 (2) Where notice of any change is given to the Registrar under 
subsection (1), the Registrar may by notice in writing require 
the licensee to furnish him with such information, verified 
in such manner, as the Registrar may specify with respect to 
such change.
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part II 2-24
Section 17 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 24 =====

Part III
Money Lenders’ Transactions
18. Form of agreement
 (1) No agreement for the repayment of money lent by a money 
lender or for the payment of interest on money so lent, and 
no security given to any money lender in respect of any such 
agreement or loan, shall be enforceable unless—
 (a) within 7 days after the making of the agreement, a note 
or memorandum in writing of the agreement is made in 
accordance with subsection (2) and signed personally by 
the borrower, and a copy of such note or memorandum 
is given to the borrower at the time of signing; and 
 (b) there is included in or attached to such copy a summary, 
in such form as may be prescribed, of such provisions 
of this Part and Part IV as may be prescribed, 
and no such agreement or security shall be enforceable if it 
is proved that the note or memorandum was not signed by 
the borrower before the money was lent or the security was 
given. 
 (2) The note or memorandum shall contain all the terms of the 
agreement and in particular shall set out—
 (a) the name and address of the money lender; 
 (b) the name and address of the borrower; 
 (c) the name and address of the surety, if any; 
 (d) the amount of the principal of the loan in words and 
figures; 
 (e) the date of the making of the agreement; 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part III 3-2
Section 18 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 25 =====

 (f) the date of the making of the loan; 
 (g) the terms of repayment of the loan; 
 (h) the form of security for the loan, if any; 
 (i) the rate of interest charged on the loan expressed as a 
rate per cent per annum, or the rate per cent per annum 
represented by the interest charged as calculated in 
accordance with Schedule 2; and (Amended 69 of 1988 
s. 15)
 (j) a declaration as to the place of negotiation and 
completion of the agreement for the loan. 
 (3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), if the court before which 
the enforceability of any agreement or security comes in 
question is satisfied that in all the circumstances it would 
be inequitable that any such agreement or security which 
does not comply with this section should be held not to be 
enforceable, the court may order that such agreement or 
security is enforceable to such extent, and subject to such 
modifications or exceptions, as the court considers equitable. 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 15)
19. Duty of money lender to give information to borrower
 (1) In respect of every agreement, whether made before or after 
the commencement of this Ordinance, for the repayment of 
money lent by a money lender, the money lender shall, on 
demand in writing being made by the borrower at any time 
during the continuance of the agreement and on tender by 
the borrower of the prescribed fee for expenses, supply to 
the borrower or, if the borrower so requires, to any person 
specified in that behalf in the demand, a statement (consisting 
of the original and a copy) signed by the money lender or his 
agent showing— (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 16)
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part III 3-4
Section 19 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 26 =====

 (a) the date on which the loan was made, the amount of the 
principal of the loan and the rate per cent per annum of 
interest charged; 
 (b) the amount of any payment already received by the 
money lender in respect of the loan and the date on 
which it was made; 
 (c) the amount of every sum due to the money lender but 
unpaid, and the date on which it became due, and the 
amount of interest accrued due and unpaid in respect of 
every such sum; 
 (d) the amount of every sum not yet due which remains 
outstanding, and the date on which it will become due; 
and 
 (e) the following words, in both English and Chinese, 
prominently and legibly on its face—
“THE BORROWER OR OTHER PERSON TO 
WHOM THIS STATEMENT IS SUPPLIED IS 
REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 19(1A) OF THE 
MONEY LENDERS ORDINANCE TO ENDORSE 
ON THE COPY OF THE STATEMENT THAT 
HE HAS RECEIVED THE ORIGINAL OF THE 
STATEMENT AND TO RETURN THE COPY AS 
SO ENDORSED TO THE MONEY LENDER. 
借款人或其他獲得供給此結算書的人須依照
《放債人條例》第19(1A)條的規定，在結算書的
副本上簽註已經收到結算書正本，以及將經如
此簽註的副本交回放債人。”. (Added 69 of 1988 
s. 16)
 (1A) The borrower or other person to whom the original and a 
copy of a statement referred to in subsection (1) is supplied 
under that subsection by a money lender shall, as soon as 
practicable after being so supplied—
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part III 3-6
Section 19 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 27 =====

 (a) endorse on the copy of that statement words to the effect 
that he has received the original of that statement; and 
 (b) return the copy of that statement as so endorsed to 
that money lender, who shall then retain it during the 
continuance of the agreement to which that statement 
relates. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 16)
 (2) A money lender shall, on demand in writing by the borrower, 
supply a copy of any document relating to a loan made 
by him or any security therefor to the borrower or, if the 
borrower so requires and on payment by the borrower to the 
lender of the prescribed fee, to any person specified in that 
behalf in the demand. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 16)
 (3) Subsection (1) or (2) does not apply to a request made 
by a borrower less than 1 month after a previous request 
thereunder relating to the same agreement was complied with. 
 (4) If a money lender to whom a demand has been made under 
this section fails without reasonable excuse to comply 
therewith within 1 month after the demand has been made, 
he shall not, so long as the default continues, be entitled 
to sue for or recover any sum due under the agreement on 
account either of principal or interest, and interest shall not be 
chargeable in respect of the period of default.
20. Duty of money lender to give information to surety
 (1) A money lender who makes any agreement for the loan of 
money in relation to which security is provided shall within 7 
days after the making of the agreement give to the surety (if a 
different person from the borrower)—
 (a) a copy of the note or memorandum in writing made 
under section 18(1); 
 (b) a copy of the security instrument, if any; and 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part III 3-8
Section 20 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 28 =====

 (c) a statement in writing signed by or on behalf of the 
money lender showing—
 (i) the total sum payable under the agreement by the 
borrower; 
 (ii) the various amounts comprised in that total sum 
with the date, or the mode of determining the date, 
when each becomes due. 
 (2) Without prejudice to subsection (1), a surety may at any time 
during the continuance of an agreement (whether made before 
or after the commencement of this Ordinance) in relation to 
which the security is provided require the money lender by 
notice in writing to furnish him with a statement in writing 
signed by or on behalf of the money lender showing—
 (a) the total sum paid under the agreement by the borrower; 
 (b) the total sum which has become payable under the 
agreement by the borrower but remains unpaid, and the 
various amounts comprised in that total sum, with the 
date when each became due; and 
 (c) the total sum which is to become payable under the 
agreement by the borrower, and the various amounts 
comprised in that total sum, with the date, or the mode 
of determining the date, when each becomes due. 
 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a request made by a 
surety less than 1 month after a previous request under that 
subsection relating to the same agreement was complied with. 
 (4) If a money lender fails to comply with subsection (1) or 
a request to which subsection (2) applies he shall not be 
entitled, while the default continues, to enforce the security so 
far as provided in relation to the agreement.
21. Early payment by borrower
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part III 3-10
Section 21 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 29 =====

 (1) A borrower under any agreement for the loan of money by a 
money lender shall be entitled at any time by notice in writing 
to the money lender and the payment to the money lender 
of all amounts payable as principal by the borrower which 
are outstanding under the agreement, together with interest 
computed up to the date of such payment, to discharge his 
indebtedness under the agreement: 
Provided that the effective rate of such interest shall not 
exceed the effective rate at which interest would have been 
payable under the agreement if the borrower had not exercised 
his right under this section to discharge his indebtedness. 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 17)
 (2) (Repealed 69 of 1988 s. 17)
22. Illegal agreements
 (1) Any agreement made for the loan of money by a money 
lender shall be illegal if it provides directly or indirectly for—
 (a) the payment of compound interest; 
 (b) prohibiting the repayment of the loan by instalments; or 
 (c) the rate or amount of interest being increased by reason 
of any default in the payment of sums due under the 
agreement: 
Provided that provision may be made by any such agreement 
that if default is made in the payment upon the due date of 
any sum payable to the money lender under the agreement, 
whether in respect of principal or interest, the money lender 
shall be entitled, subject to Part IV , to charge simple interest 
on that sum from the date of the default until the sum is paid 
at an effective rate not exceeding the effective rate payable 
in respect of the principal apart from any default, and any 
interest so charged shall not be reckoned for the purposes of 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part III 3-12
Section 22 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 30 =====

this Ordinance as part of the interest charged in respect of the 
loan. 
 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), if the court before which the 
legality of any agreement comes in question is satisfied that 
in all the circumstances it would be inequitable that any such 
agreement which does not comply with this section should 
be held to be unenforceable, the court may order that such 
agreement is enforceable to such extent, and subject to such 
modifications or exceptions, as the court considers equitable. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 18)
23. Loan etc. not recoverable unless money lender licensed
No money lender shall be entitled to recover in any court any 
money lent by him or any interest in respect thereof or to enforce 
any agreement made or security taken in respect of any loan made 
by him unless he satisfies the court by the production of his licence 
or otherwise that at the date of the loan or the making of the 
agreement or the taking of the security (as the case may be) he was 
licensed: 
Provided that if the court is satisfied that in all the circumstances 
it would be inequitable if a money lender who did not satisfy it 
that he was licensed at the relevant time was thereby not entitled 
to so recover such money or interest or to enforce such agreement 
or security, the court may order that the money lender is entitled 
to recover such money or interest or to enforce such agreement 
or security to such extent, and subject to such modifications or 
exceptions, as the court considers equitable. (Added 69 of 1988 
s. 19)
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part III 3-14
Section 23 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 31 =====

Part IV
Excessive Interest Rates
24. Prohibition of excessive interest rates
 (1) Any person (whether a money lender or not) who lends or 
offers to lend money at an effective rate of interest which 
exceeds 48 per cent per annum commits an offence. (Amended 
L.N. 208 of 2022)
 (2) No agreement for the repayment of any loan or for the 
payment of interest on any loan and no security given in 
respect of any such agreement or loan shall be enforceable 
in any case in which the effective rate of interest exceeds the 
rate specified in subsection (1). 
 (3) The Legislative Council may by resolution alter the rate 
specified in subsection (1): 
Provided that in relation to any agreement for the repayment 
of any loan or for the payment of interest on any loan which 
is in force at the date when such rate is so altered, the rate so 
specified as at the coming into force of such agreement shall 
continue to apply. 
 (4) Any person who commits an offence under this section shall 
be liable—
 (a) on summary conviction to a fine of $500,000 and to 
imprisonment for 2 years; 
 (b) on conviction on indictment to a fine of $5,000,000 and 
to imprisonment for 10 years. (Amended 82 of 1994 
s. 33)
 (5) Nothing in this section shall apply to—
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part IV 4-2
Section 24 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 32 =====

 (a) a loan specified in paragraph 12 in Part 2 of Schedule 1; 
or 
 (b) as respects such loan, any person who makes such loan. 
(Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 20)
25. Reopening of certain transactions
 (1) Subject to section 24(2), where—
 (a) proceedings are taken in any court by any person 
(whether a money lender or not) for the recovery of 
any money lent or the enforcement of any agreement or 
security in respect of any loan; and 
 (b) subject to subsection (3), there is evidence which 
satisfies the court that the transaction is extortionate, 
the court may reopen the transaction so as to do justice 
between the parties having regard to all the circumstances, 
and, for that purpose, make such orders and give such 
directions in respect of the terms of the transaction or the 
rights of the parties thereunder as the court may think fit. 
 (2) For the purposes of this section, a transaction is extortionate 
if—
 (a) it requires the debtor or a relative of his to make 
payments (whether unconditionally or on certain 
contingencies) which are grossly exorbitant; or 
 (b) it otherwise grossly contravenes ordinary principles of 
fair-dealing. 
 (3) Any agreement for the repayment of a loan or for the 
payment of interest on a loan in respect of which the effective 
rate of interest exceeds 36 per cent per annum shall, having 
regard to that fact alone, be presumed for the purposes of 
this section to be a transaction which is extortionate; but 
except where such rate exceeds the rate specified in section 
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part IV 4-4
Section 25 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 33 =====

24(1), the court may declare that any such agreement is not 
extortionate for the purposes of this section if, having regard 
to all the circumstances relating to the agreement, the court is 
satisfied that such rate is not unreasonable or unfair. (Amended 
L.N. 208 of 2022)
 (4) In determining whether a transaction is extortionate for the 
purposes of this section, regard shall be had to such evidence 
as is adduced concerning—
 (a) interest rate prevailing at the time it was made; 
 (b) the factors mentioned in subsections (5) and (6); and 
 (c) any other relevant considerations. 
 (5) Factors applicable under subsection (4)(b) in relation to the 
debtor include—
 (a) his age, experience, business capacity and state of 
health; and 
 (b) the degree to which, at the time of entering into the 
transaction, he was under financial pressure, and the 
nature of that pressure. 
 (6) Factors applicable under subsection (4)(b) in relation to the 
lender or other person by whom the proceedings are taken 
include—
 (a) the degree of risk accepted by the lender, having regard 
to the nature and value of any security provided; 
 (b) his relationship to the debtor; 
 (c) whether or not a specious cash price was quoted for any 
goods or services included in the transaction; and 
 (d) where one or more other transactions are to be taken 
into account, the question how far any such other 
transaction was reasonably required for the protection 
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part IV 4-6
Section 25 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 34 =====

of the debtor or the lender, or was in the interest of the 
debtor. 
 (7) Any court in which proceedings might be taken for the 
recovery of any loan or security in respect of a loan shall 
have and may at the instance of the debtor or any surety 
exercise the like powers as may be exercised under this 
section where proceedings are taken for the recovery of a 
loan; and the court may entertain any application under this 
subsection by the debtor or surety notwithstanding that the 
time for repayment of the loan or any instalment thereof has 
not arrived. 
 (8) On any application relating to the admission or amount of a 
proof by a money lender in any bankruptcy proceedings, the 
court may exercise the like powers as may be exercised under 
this section where proceedings are taken for the recovery of 
money. 
 (9) The Legislative Council may by resolution alter the rate 
specified in subsection (3) but, in relation to any agreement 
referred to in that subsection which is in force at the date 
when such rate is so altered, the rate so specified as at the 
coming into force of such agreement shall continue to apply. 
 (9A) Nothing in this section shall apply to—
 (a) a loan specified in paragraph 12 in Part 2 of Schedule 1; 
or 
 (b) as respects such loan, any person who makes such loan. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 21)
 (10) In this section debtor (債務人) means any person primarily 
liable for the repayment of a loan or for the payment of 
interest in respect of a loan.
Last updated date
30.12.2022
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part IV 4-8
Section 25 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 35 =====

Part V
General
26. Restriction on money-lending advertisements
 (1) A money lender shall not for the purpose of his business 
as a money lender issue or publish or cause to be issued 
or published any advertisement, circular, business letter or 
other similar document which does not show the name of the 
money lender as specified in his licence in such manner as to 
be not less conspicuous than any other name. (Amended 69 of 
1988 s. 22)
 (2) Where any advertisement, circular, business letter or other 
similar document issued or published by or on behalf of a 
money lender purports to indicate the terms of interest on 
which he is willing to make loans or any particular loan, such 
advertisement, circular, business letter or other document 
shall show the interest proposed to be charged—
 (a) subject to section 24(1), as a rate per cent per annum; 
and 
 (b) in such manner as to be not less conspicuous than any 
other matter mentioned therein.
 (3) A money lender or any other person shall not for the purpose 
of the money lender’s business as a money lender issue or 
publish or cause to be issued or published any advertisement 
which does not clearly show the words “Money Lender’s 
Licence No.” immediately followed by the number of the 
licence of the money lender. (Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 22)
 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1) and section 29(9), the 
name of the money lender as specified in his licence shall 
be deemed to include any change by law of the name of the 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-2
Section 26 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 36 =====

money lender, irrespective of whether his licence specifies the 
new name. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 22)
27. Charges for expenses etc. not recoverable
 (1) Any agreement entered into between a money lender and 
a borrower or intending borrower for the payment by the 
borrower or intending borrower to the money lender of any 
sum for or on account of costs, charges or expenses (other 
than stamp duties or similar duties) incidental to or relating 
to the negotiations for or the granting of the loan or proposed 
loan or the guaranteeing or securing of the repayment thereof 
shall be illegal. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 23)
 (2) (Repealed 69 of 1988 s. 23) 
 (3) Subject to section 33A(5), it shall not be lawful for any 
money lender or his partner, employer, employee, principal 
or agent or any person acting for or in collusion with any 
money lender to charge, recover or receive any sum as for 
or on account of any such costs, charges or expenses (other 
than stamp duties or similar charges) or to demand or receive 
any remuneration or reward whatsoever from a borrower or 
intending borrower for or in connection with or preliminary 
to procuring, negotiating or obtaining any loan made or 
guaranteeing or securing the repayment thereof. (Amended 69 
of 1988 s. 23)
 (4) If any money or money’s worth is directly or indirectly paid 
or allowed to or received by any person in contravention of 
this section, the amount or value thereof, to the extent of 
such contravention and notwithstanding any agreement to the 
contrary, may be recovered by the borrower from such person 
or, if such person is the money lender or a partner, employer, 
employee, principal or agent of the money lender or is in 
any way acting for or in collusion with him, may be set off 
against the amount actually lent (and that amount shall be 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-4
Section 27 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 37 =====

deemed to be reduced accordingly) or may be recovered by 
the borrower from such person or from the money lender.
28. Power of Registrar and police to enter premises and inspect 
books, etc.
 (1) Where—
 (a) the Registrar or any other person authorized in writing 
for the purposes of this section by the Registrar; or 
 (b) a police officer of or above the rank of superintendent 
or any other police officer authorized in writing for the 
purposes of this section by a police officer of or above 
such rank, 
has a reasonable suspicion that a money lender has committed 
an offence against this Ordinance (in this section referred to 
as the suspected offence), he may enter any premises where 
the business of the money lender is being carried on and may 
demand the production of and inspect the money lender’s 
licence or any books, accounts, documents or writings 
relating to any loan made by the money lender or relating to 
his business as a money lender, and may take notes, copies or 
extracts thereof or therefrom. 
 (2) Where pursuant to subsection (1) a police officer has entered 
any premises where the business of a money lender is being 
carried on, he may seize any books, accounts, documents 
or writings relating to any loan made by the money lender 
or relating to his business as a money lender that the police 
officer reasonably believes to be related to the suspected 
offence. (Amended L.N. 307 of 1998)
 (3) Any books, accounts, documents or writings seized under 
subsection (2) shall, as soon as practicable after such seizure, 
be delivered to the Commissioner of Police, or to some 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-6
Section 28 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 38 =====

person nominated by him in that behalf, by the police officer 
who seized them. 
 (4) Where any books, accounts, documents or writings seized 
under subsection (2) are delivered in accordance with 
subsection (3) to the Commissioner of Police, or to some 
person nominated by him in that behalf, the Commissioner 
of Police or that person, as the case may be, shall, if no 
prosecution is instituted within 3 months after such delivery 
in respect of the suspected offence to which they relate, 
return, or arrange for the return of, such books, accounts, 
documents or writings to the money lender from whom they 
were so seized. 
(Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 24)
29. Offences by money lenders
 (1) Any person who carries on business as a money lender—
 (a) without a licence; or 
 (b) at any place other than the premises specified in his 
licence; or 
 (c) otherwise than in accordance with the conditions of his 
licence; or 
 (d) during any period when his licence is suspended, 
commits an offence. 
 (2) Any person who makes any false or misleading statement or 
furnishes any false or misleading information in connection 
with any application for a licence or the renewal of a licence 
or in connection with any application for an exemption under 
section 33B commits an offence. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 25)
 (3) Any person who, being a licensee, fails to give notice under 
section 17(1) of any change in respect of such licensee, or 
who, having been required by the Registrar under section 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-8
Section 29 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 39 =====

17(2) to furnish any information in respect of such change, 
fails to furnish such information or furnishes any false or 
misleading information, commits an offence. 
 (4) Any money lender who—
 (a) fails to make a note or memorandum in writing of an 
agreement in compliance with section 18; 
 (b) fails to give a copy of such note or memorandum to the 
borrower in compliance with section 18(1)(a); or 
 (c) fails to include in or attach to such copy a summary in 
writing in compliance with section 18(1)(b), 
commits an offence. 
 (5) Any money lender who demands or accepts security for 
a loan in any form prohibited by regulations made under 
section 34 commits an offence. 
 (6) Any money lender who fails to comply with any demand in 
writing made by a borrower under section 19 to supply any 
statement or copy of any document to the borrower or any 
person specified in the demand commits an offence. 
 (6A) Any money lender who fails to retain a copy of a statement 
referred to in section 19(1) supplied to him under section 
19(1A) during the continuance of the agreement to which 
that statement relates commits an offence. (Added 69 of 1988 
s. 25)
 (7) Any money lender who fails to give a surety any information 
to which the surety is entitled under section 20(1) or in 
respect of which the surety has made a request by notice in 
writing under section 20(2) commits an offence. 
 (8) Any money lender who issues or publishes, or causes to be 
issued or published, any advertisement, circular, business 
letter or other similar document which contravenes section 
26(1) or (2) commits an offence. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 25)
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-10
Section 29 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 40 =====

 (8A) Subject to subsection (8B), any money lender or other person 
who issues or publishes, or causes to be issued or published, 
any advertisement which contravenes section 26(3) commits 
an offence. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 25)
 (8B) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection 
(8A) relating to an advertisement, it shall be a defence for 
such person to show—
 (a) that he carries on the business of issuing or publishing 
or causing to be issued or published advertisements; 
 (b) that he received the advertisement for issuing or 
publishing or causing to be issued or published in the 
ordinary course of business; and 
 (c) that at the time he issued or published or caused to 
be issued or published the advertisement he believed 
upon reasonable grounds that the advertisement clearly 
showed the words “Money Lender’s Licence No.” 
immediately followed by the number of the licence of 
the money lender concerned. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 25)
 (9) Any money lender who for any of the purposes of his 
business uses any name other than the name specified in his 
licence commits an offence. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 25)
 (10) Any money lender or his partner, employer, employee, 
principal or agent or any person acting for or in collusion 
with any money lender who charges, recovers or receives any 
sum as for or on account of any costs, charges or expenses 
(other than stamp duties or similar charges) referred to in 
section 27(3) or demands or receives any remuneration or 
reward whatsoever from a borrower or intending borrower for 
or in connection with or preliminary to procuring, negotiating 
or obtaining any loan made or guaranteeing or securing the 
repayment thereof commits an offence. (Added 69 of 1988 
s. 25)
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-12
Section 29 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 41 =====

30. Offences of fraudulent inducement and obstruction
 (1) Any person who by any false, misleading or deceptive 
statement, representation or promise, or by any dishonest 
concealment of material facts, fraudulently induces or 
attempts to induce—
 (a) any money lender to lend money to any person or 
to agree to the terms on which money is or is to be 
borrowed; 
 (b) any person to borrow money from a money lender or to 
agree to the terms on which money is or is to be lent, 
commits an offence. 
 (2) Any person who—
 (a) wilfully obstructs an authorized person in the 
performance of his functions under section 28; or 
 (b) without reasonable cause fails to give an authorized 
person such assistance or information as he may require 
in the performance of such functions, 
commits an offence. (Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 26)
 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), authorized person (獲授
權的人) means—
 (a) the Registrar or any other person authorized by him in 
writing under section 28; or 
 (b) a police officer of or above the rank of superintendent 
or any other police officer authorized by him in writing 
under section 28. (Added 69 of 1988 s. 26)
30A. Offences relating to licensing court
Any person who—
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-14
Section 30 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 42 =====

 (a) refuses or fails to comply with any lawful order, 
requirement or direction of the licensing court; or 
 (b) disturbs or otherwise interferes with the proceedings of 
the licensing court, 
commits an offence. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 27)
31. Liability for offences by companies
Where at any time a company commits an offence under this 
Ordinance with the consent or connivance of, or because of neglect 
by, any individual, the individual commits the like offence if at that 
time—
 (a) he is a director, manager, secretary or similar officer of 
the company; or 
 (b) he is purporting to act as such officer; or 
 (c) the company is managed by its members, of whom he is 
one. 
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 28)
32. Penalties and disqualification
 (1) Any person who commits an offence under this Ordinance 
shall be liable—
 (a) in the case of an offence under section 29, to a fine at 
level 6 and to imprisonment for 2 years; 
 (b) in the case of any other offence for which no penalty is 
provided, to a fine at level 3 and to imprisonment for 6 
months. (Amended E.R. 4 of 2021)
 (2) Where any person is convicted of an offence under this 
Ordinance, the magistrate may order that such person shall 
be disqualified from holding a licence for such period not 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-16
Section 31 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 43 =====

exceeding 5 years from the date of such conviction as may be 
specified in the order. 
 (3) A licence held by any person against whom an order is made 
under subsection (2) shall, as from the date of the order, cease 
to have effect for the purposes of this Ordinance.
32A. Time limitation for instituting certain proceedings
Proceedings for an offence under section 29(3) shall be instituted 
within 2 years of the commission of the offence. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 29. Amended 82 of 1994 s. 34)
33. Burden of proof
 (1) When in any proceedings under this Ordinance against any 
person it is alleged that such person is not the holder of a 
licence, it shall in the absence of proof to the contrary be 
presumed that such person is not licensed. 
 (2) When in any proceedings under this Ordinance against any 
person it is alleged that—
 (a) such person is not a person specified in Part 1 of 
Schedule 1; or 
 (b) that a loan alleged to have been made by such person is 
not a loan specified in Part 2 of Schedule 1, 
the fact so alleged shall in the absence of proof to the 
contrary be presumed. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 30)
33A. General exemptions
 (1) The Registrar may, after consultation with the Financial 
Secretary, by notice in the Gazette—
 (a) exempt a class of persons (whether money lenders 
or not) specified in the notice from all or any of the 
provisions of this Ordinance specified in the notice; or 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-18
Section 32A Cap. 163

===== PAGE 44 =====

 (b) exempt a loan, or class of loans, by a class of persons 
(whether money lenders or not), specified in the notice 
from all or any of the provisions of this Ordinance 
specified in the notice. 
 (2) An exemption under subsection (1) shall be subject to such 
conditions, if any, as are specified in the notice. 
 (3) The Registrar may at any time by notice in the Gazette—
 (a) revoke an exemption under subsection (1); or 
 (b) revoke, vary, or add to any condition subject to which 
such exemption is granted.
 (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance, any 
notice—
 (a) under section 21(2) or 27(2) of this Ordinance as in 
force at any time before the commencement* of the 
Money Lenders (Amendment) Ordinance 1988 (69 of 
1988); and 
 (b) in force immediately before that commencement, 
shall remain in force and continue to have effect as if section 
17 or 23(a) and (b), as the case may be, of the Money Lenders 
(Amendment) Ordinance 1988 (69 of 1988) had never come 
into operation but the Registrar may, after consultation with 
the Financial Secretary, by notice in the Gazette, revoke any 
such notice. 
 (5) Where, at any time before the commencement of the Money 
Lenders (Amendment) Ordinance 1988 (69 of 1988), section 
27(1) did not apply in relation to an agreement referred to in 
section 27(2) of this Ordinance as in force at any time before 
that commencement, then section 27(3) shall, in the like 
manner—
 (a) be deemed never to have applied in relation to that 
agreement; and 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-20
Section 33A Cap. 163

===== PAGE 45 =====

 (b) not apply in relation to that agreement in so far 
as section 27(1) does not apply in relation to that 
agreement by virtue of subsection (4) of this section. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 31)
Editorial Note:
* 1 October 1988—L.N. 257 of 1988.
33B. Specific exemptions
 (1) A person (whether a money lender or not) may make an 
application—
 (a) in the prescribed form; and 
 (b) accompanied by the prescribed fee, 
to the Registrar to be exempted from all or any of the 
provisions of this Ordinance. 
 (2) Where the Registrar receives an application under subsection 
(1) he shall, after consultation with the Financial Secretary, 
by notice in writing served on the person who made the 
application—
 (a) grant the exemption subject to such conditions, if any, 
as he may deem fit; or 
 (b) refuse to grant the exemption. 
 (3) Without limiting the generality of the Registrar’s power 
under subsection (2)(a) to impose conditions on an exemption 
granted under that subsection—
 (a) such conditions may include a condition that the 
exemption shall apply to a loan, or class of loans, 
specified in the exemption; and 
 (b) the Registrar may, by notice in writing served on the 
person to whom the exemption is granted, revoke, vary, 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-22
Section 33B Cap. 163

===== PAGE 46 =====

or add to any condition subject to which the exemption 
is granted. 
 (4) An exemption granted under subsection (2)(a) shall be in the 
prescribed form and—
 (a) may be revoked at any time by the Registrar by notice 
in writing served on the person to whom the exemption 
is granted; and 
 (b) unless sooner revoked under paragraph (a), shall remain 
in force for a period of 3 years, or such lesser period 
as may be specified by the Registrar after consultation 
with the Financial Secretary, commencing on the 
date on which the exemption is so granted or, if the 
exemption specifies a later date, that later date, and that 
exemption may be renewed from time to time by further 
applications made under subsection (1). 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 31)
33C. Legislative Council may amend Schedule 1
The Legislative Council may by resolution amend Schedule 1. 
(Added 69 of 1988 s. 31)
34. Regulations
The Chief Executive in Council may make regulations—  (Amended 
23 of 1999 s. 3)
 (a) prescribing anything required or permitted to be 
prescribed under this Ordinance;
 (b) specifying any particulars furnished under section 8 as 
particulars which shall not be entered in the register 
under section 4; 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-24
Section 33C Cap. 163

===== PAGE 47 =====

 (c) imposing restrictions in relation to the form in which 
security for any loan may be demanded or accepted by a 
money lender; 
 (d) for the better carrying into effect of this Ordinance.
35. Saving
 (1) (Omitted as spent—E.R. 3 of 2018) 
 (2)-(3) (Repealed 69 of 1988 s. 32) 
 (4) The Registrar shall take possession of the register and any 
documents relating thereto kept at the office of the Registrar 
of Companies under the Money-lenders Ordinance 1911*, and 
such register and other documents shall be deemed to form 
part of the records kept by the Registrar under this Ordinance 
and shall be available for inspection in the same manner as 
the register kept under this Ordinance.
Editorial Note:
* See Chapter 163, 1977 Ed.
36. Existing loans
 (1) This section applies to any agreement made before the 
commencement of this Ordinance for the payment of any loan 
or for the payment of interest on any loan, and to any security 
given (whether given before or after the commencement of 
this Ordinance) in respect of any such agreement or loan. 
 (2) Nothing in this Ordinance shall render any agreement or 
security to which this section applies void or unenforceable, 
but no such agreement or security shall be enforceable as 
against the borrower or surety or any other person except to 
the extent that—
 (a) any benefit accruing to the lender by virtue thereof is 
not more favourable; and 
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-26
Section 35 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 48 =====

 (b) any obligation or liability incurred by the borrower or 
surety or other person by virtue thereof is not more 
onerous, 
than it would have been if such agreement had been made or, 
as the case may be, such security had been given on terms 
consistent with the requirements of this Ordinance. 
 (3) Where proceedings are taken in any court for the enforcement 
of any agreement or security to which this section applies, 
the court may make such orders and give such directions in 
respect of the terms thereof or the rights and obligations of 
the parties in respect thereof as the court may deem necessary 
or desirable having regard to the requirements of this 
Ordinance relating to an agreement or security of the kind in 
question.
Last updated date
26.8.2021
Money Lenders Ordinance
Part V 5-28
Section 36 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 49 =====

Schedule 1
[ss. 2, 24, 25, 33 & 33C]
Part 1
Exempted Persons
1. Any subsidiary of an authorized institution within the meaning of 
the Banking Ordinance (Cap. 155).
2. A co-operative society registered under the Co-operative Societies 
Ordinance (Cap. 33).
3. A credit union registered under the Credit Unions Ordinance 
(Cap. 119) and the Credit Union League of Hong Kong 
incorporated under Part XI of that Ordinance.
4. A trade union registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance 
(Cap. 332).
5. An insurer, within the meaning of the Insurance Ordinance 
(Cap. 41), authorized under that Ordinance to carry on a class, or 
classes, of insurance business specified in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to 
that Ordinance. (Amended 12 of 2015 s. 107)
6. (Repealed L.N. 140 of 1991)
7. The University Grants Committee. (Amended L.N. 35 of 1995)
8. A bank which is—
 (a) incorporated or established outside Hong Kong;
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 1—Part 1 S1-2
 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 50 =====

 (b) recognized as a bank by the relevant banking supervisory 
authority (within the meaning of section 2(9) of the Banking 
Ordinance (Cap. 155)) which has been declared in writing 
by the Monetary Authority appointed under section 5A of 
the Exchange Fund Ordinance (Cap. 66) to be a banking 
supervisory authority in respect of which he is of the opinion 
that it exercises adequate prudential supervision for the 
purposes of this paragraph; and (Replaced 49 of 1995 s. 53)
 (c) carrying on banking business in the place where that banking 
supervisory authority is located. (Replaced 49 of 1995 s. 53)
9. An organization—
 (a) which is a member of the International Union of Credit and 
Investment Insurers (“The Berne Union”); or
 (b) in respect of which the Registrar has declared in writing that 
he is satisfied that it was established by one or more national 
governments with the object of financing, or guaranteeing the 
financing of, the export of a country’s goods or services.
10. A corporation licensed to carry on a business in securities margin 
financing under Part V of the Securities and Futures Ordinance 
(Cap. 571). (Replaced 5 of 2002 s. 407)
11. A corporation licensed to carry on, or an authorized financial 
institution registered for carrying on, a business in dealing in 
securities under Part V of the Securities and Futures Ordinance 
(Cap. 571) who engages in securities margin financing in order to 
facilitate acquisitions or holdings of securities by the corporation 
or institution for its client. (Replaced 5 of 2002 s. 407)
Part 2
Exempted Loans
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 1—Part 2 S1-4
 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 51 =====

1. A loan made bona fide by an employer to his employee.
2. A loan made to a company secured by a mortgage, charge, lien or 
other encumbrance—
 (a) registered, or to be registered, under the Companies 
Ordinance (Cap. 622); (Replaced 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
 (ab) registered, or to be registered, under a provision of the 
Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) as in force from time to time 
before the commencement date* of section 2 of Schedule 9 
to the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), having a continuing 
effect under Schedule 11 to the Companies Ordinance 
(Cap. 622); (Added 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
 (ac) registered under a former Companies Ordinance as defined 
by section 2(1) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622); or 
(Added 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
 (b) which would, in the case of a company referred to in 
paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of company (公司) in 
section 2(1)—  (Amended 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
 (i) where the mortgage, charge, lien or encumbrance was 
created before the commencement date* of section 2 
of Schedule 9 to the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), 
be able to be registered under a former Companies 
Ordinance as defined by section 2(1) of the Companies 
Ordinance (Cap. 622) if the company were incorporated 
under that former Companies Ordinance; or
 (ii) where the mortgage, charge, lien or encumbrance is 
created on or after that commencement date*, be able to 
be registered under the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) 
if the company were incorporated under that Ordinance. 
(Amended 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 1—Part 2 S1-6
 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 52 =====

3. A loan made by a company under a bona fide credit-card scheme 
operated by the company to any holder of a credit-card issued 
under that scheme.
4. A loan made bona fide for the purchase of immovable property on 
the security of a mortgage of that property and a loan made bona 
fide to refinance such a mortgage.
5. A loan made by a company or a firm or individual whose ordinary 
business does not primarily or mainly involve the lending of 
money, in the ordinary course of that business.
6. A loan made by a licensed pawnbroker under the Pawnbrokers 
Ordinance (Cap. 166), being a loan to which that Ordinance 
applies.
7. A loan made by any statutory body under any power conferred by 
law in that behalf.
8. A loan made from—
 (a) a fund established by resolution of the Legislative Council or 
by or under an Ordinance;
 (b) any superannuation or provident fund.
9. A loan made from any chit-fund operated under the Chit-Fund 
Businesses (Prohibition) Ordinance (Cap. 262).
10. (a) A loan made by a holding company to its subsidiary or by 
a subsidiary to its holding company or another subsidiary 
company of the same holding company.
 (b) Sections 13, 14 and 15 of the Companies Ordinance 
(Cap. 622) shall apply to the interpretation of this paragraph 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 1—Part 2 S1-8
 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 53 =====

as it applies to the interpretation of that Ordinance. (Amended 
28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920)
11. A loan made to a company where the loan—
 (a) forms part of a transaction involving the export from, or the 
import into, Hong Kong of goods or services; and
 (b) is for the purpose of facilitating that export or import, as the 
case may be, of those goods or services.
12. (a) A loan made to a company that has a paid up share capital of 
not less than $1,000,000 or an equivalent amount in any other 
approved currency.
 (b) For the purposes of this paragraph approved currency (認可
貨幣) means a currency—
 (i) freely convertible into Hong Kong dollars; or
 (ii) approved in writing by the Registrar for the purposes of 
this paragraph.
13. A loan upon terms involving the issue by a company of debentures 
or other securities in respect of which a prospectus has been 
registered under the Companies (Winding Up and Miscellaneous 
Provisions) Ordinance (Cap. 32). (Amended 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 
920)
14. A loan made to a company the shares or debentures of which are 
listed on—
 (a) a recognized stock market as defined in section 1 of Part 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Securities and Futures Ordinance 
(Cap. 571); or (Replaced 5 of 2002 s. 407)
 (b) any other stock market declared in writing, by the Securities 
and Futures Commission referred to in section 3(1) of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571), to be approved 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 1—Part 2 S1-10
 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 54 =====

for the purposes of this paragraph. (Amended 10 of 1989 
s. 65; 5 of 2002 s. 407)
15. A loan made to the subsidiary of a company referred to in 
paragraph 14.
(Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 33)
Editorial Note:
* Commencement date : 3 March 2014.
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 1—Part 2 S1-12
 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 55 =====

Schedule 2
[ss. 2 & 18]
(Amended 69 of 1988 s. 34) 
Calculation of True Annual Percentage Rate of Interest
1. Any amount paid or payable to the lender under the agreement 
(other than simple interest charged in accordance with the proviso 
to section 22(1)) shall be appropriated to principal and interest in 
the proportion that the total amount of principal bears to the total 
amount of the interest. (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 34)
2. The amount of principal outstanding at any time shall be taken to 
be the balance remaining after deducting from the principal the 
total of the portions of any payments appropriated to principal in 
accordance with paragraph 1. 
3. The several amounts taken to be outstanding by way of principal 
during the several periods ending on the dates on which payments 
are made shall be multiplied in each case by the number of 
calendar months during which those amounts are taken to be 
respectively outstanding, and there shall be ascertained the 
aggregate amount of the sum so produced. 
4. The total amount of the interest shall be divided by one-twelfth 
part of the aggregate amount mentioned in paragraph 3 and the 
quotient, multiplied by one hundred, shall be taken to be the rate of 
interest per cent per annum. 
5. If having regard to the intervals between successive payments 
it is desired so to do, the calculation of interest may be made 
by reference to weeks instead of months, and in such a case the 
foregoing paragraphs shall have effect as though in paragraph 3 the 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 2 S2-2
 Cap. 163

===== PAGE 56 =====

word “weeks” were substituted for the words “calendar months”, 
and in paragraph 4 the words “one-fifty-second” were substituted 
for the words “one-twelfth”. 
6. Where any interval between successive payments is not a number 
of complete weeks or complete months, the foregoing paragraphs 
shall have effect as though 1 day were one-seventh part of a week 
or one-thirtieth part of a month (as the case may be). 
Last updated date
28.6.2018
Money Lenders Ordinance
Schedule 2 S2-4
 Cap. 163